Tell me about yourself, or walk me through your resume?

Hi, my name is Zachary, and I’m a sophomore at NYU studying finance and mathematics. I first got interested in business through a field called actuarial science, where I found its use of financial instruments like interest rate swaps and bonds for hedging incredibly fascinating. I started to realize this into an interest overall in sales and trading through a political economy club at NYU, where as part of their analyst program and research team, I gained a strong background in finance generally as well as macroeconomics. I also furthereed that interest through a quantatitve-markets based club at NYU, where as a global macro investment analyst, I analyzed and pitched fixed-income, interest-rate, and foreign-exchange products. I was really able to apply some of this knowledge in the summer as an actuarial intern. As part of the team, I monitored the equity market for litigation risks as well as worked heavily with investment and derivative teams to ensure solvency. As a result of those experiences, I realized that S&T was the perfect field for me. But outside of all that, I play for the NYU Ultimate Frisbee team, and an avid nature photographer, and huge Dallas Mavericks fan. 

Why S&T (generally)?

I would say that I’m interested in S&T for three key reasons; firstly, because it fits my personality; secondly, because of its meritocratic nature; and thirdly, because it caters to my interest. 
I think the first main reason why I’m interested in S&T is because of its fit with my personality. In contrast with other careers in finance, S&T allows me to work deeply in highly complex and technical markets such as those concerning interest rates, foreign exchange, or commodities products. As someone who’s highly precise and diligent, I think that the meticulous nature of S&T is truly fascinating and is a great fit for my personality.
A second reason why I’m interested in the field is due to its meritocratic nature. As opposed to other careers in finance, S&T is a field where your performance is essentially completely dependent on your knowledge and diligence. This aspect of S&T, I believe, really allows me to learn about the various markets of S&T and their particularities. In essence, you get out of S&T what you put in, and as someone who always tries to put their best effort forward whatever the situation, I believe that S&T complements that perfectly while giving me unparalleled opportunities to learn. 
A last reason - and perhaps the most important reason - why I’m interested in S&T is because it fits my interests well.  Throughout high school, I had a strong interest in politics and macroeconomics. Whether that was through student organizations, serving as a poll worker, or simply by keeping up with the news, politics always has been something important to me. When I got to college, that interest naturally translated into a fascination with the markets, and S&T allowed me to turn what I am interested in into a tangible experience. 
Overall, the combination of interesting work, interactions with intricate markets, and learning opportunities are what drew me to sales & trading. From what I’ve heard from both alumni and upperclassmen, I think that sales & trading is a strong fit for my personality, career goals, and interests. 

Why not Quantitative Trading or Buy-Side (HF)?

I think that there are three main reasons why I’m more interested in sales and trading over more speculative roles in quantitative trading/hedge funds: firstly, my career aspirations, secondly, the client-facing aspect, and thirdly, the unparalleled macro markets access that comes with a bigger balance sheet.
Firstly, while I’m very interested in the mathematical aspects of finance that are found in more quantitative roles, my genuine interest in finance is closer to the dynamics of financial markets and my desire to engage directly with market activities. In S&T, the focus is on understanding market movements, meeting client needs, and executing trades based on real-time data and market sentiment. In contrast, I’m not as much interested in the more speculative nature of QT/HF, especially from a career sustainability perspective. As a result, I think S&T is a better fit for my aspirations.
Furthermore, I’m also interested in the personal aspect of S&T. A key part of the job is building relationships with clients, understanding their needs, and offering tailored solutions based on market conditions. This aspect of client interaction and relationship management is something I value highly, which is why I believe that S&T is a better career fit overall than a more isolated role at a HF, where your main interactions are with your associates or VPs over specific trades.
Lastly, I believe that S&T provides much greater access to macro markets as compared to an HF. Due to the global presence and large balance sheet of banks like [xyz], I can be involved in many more markets and products than I might be able to otherwise. Furthermore, the large balance sheet means that I can take more interesting positions on the market that I might not be able to realize at an HF.

Why are you interested in the fixed-income market?

I’m really interested in the fixed-income for a number of reasons. I’d say the first, to get the practical reasons out of the way, is that the fixed-income market is pretty hard to automate. I know that the market has really been moving in that direction, but because of the wide diversity of different bonds and relative illiquidity, it’s definitely something that’s going to continue even if AI truly gets off the ground. A second, more thematic reason, is that I think it really combines ideas from a lot of asset classes; rates, of course, but commodities and equities to some degree alongside a firm background in global macro. And as someone who’s always been interested in the politics side, I think that it’s really a great fit for my interests. I’d also say a last reason is really just because of the variety; of course, you have your government bonds and treasuries, but you also have corporates and converts, MBS and structured products, high-yield and distressed debt, which are all things that are very difficult to access as a retail investor. As someone’s who’s pretty early on in my career, I think that the variety would really allow me to really gain a great foundation for my career and find what works best for me.

Why are you interested in the equity market?

There’s a lot to be interested in within the equity market, but I’d say that I’m interested in it for three main reasons. Firstly, I think it’s position as the (generally) most accessible and liquid market really makes it attractive in terms of being able to find a way to express a view, especially in combination with derivatives such as options as compared to more macro-focused desks.
I’d also say that I think the depth of research in the equity market is something that’s really interesting to me. Because of just how complex a corporation can be, that means that an analyst with just one or two years of experience can be the most knowledgeable on a certain stock even compared to someone with 40 years. As someone who’s extremely diligent, I think that this kind of equalizing factor really allows me to shine even in a highly crowded market, especially given the large amount of special and unique situations that appear in the equity market.
Lastly, I’d say that the equity market genuinely is affected by everything, giving the most broad foundation for me to start my careers. For example, we’ve seen the rate cycle play a huge impact but currency and commodities products have strong implications for a plethora of companies, which cannot be said in reverse. As a result, for those three reasons, I’m really interested in the equity market.

Have you considered investment banking? Why not investment banking?

Coming from a IB-heavy school like NYU, it’s definitely something I’ve considered, and I’ve even gone as far as to do an internship in investment banking. Kind of ironically, that internship is a huge part of the reason why I’m not interested in the field. Throughout my time at that firm, I really found a lot of the work to not only be highly repetitive but also not intellectually stimulating, for example doing business development or making slideshows. On top of that, it was very difficult for me to see the tangible impact of my work. And really to put the nail in the coffin, I felt highly disconnected from the markets, which is something that’s always been somewhat important to me. Obviously, investment banking is an excellent career, but I just think I’m a bit more quantitative and analytical to think it would be a great fit for me personally. 

What are your major concerns about S&T?

I’d say that one of my major concerns about S&T is the impact of technology and algorithmic trading on the field. In particular, we’ve already seen technology cut into the field on the equities side, though obviously the more macro-based products are going to be more challenging. There’s also the risk that I might end up ending on a desk that I think I love, but end up disliking in the long-run without much room to switch desks. Obviously, no job is ever going to be perfect, but ultimately, through my conversations with professionals and my own research, the pros definitely seem to outweigh the cons. 

What’s market making? Do we take proprietary bets on assets here?

Market making is the process of providing clients with the capacity to execute trades and interact with the market - i.e. making a market for the client to actively trade in. Since the global financial crisis and the implementation of various regulations, particular the Volcker [Voll-ker] rule, banks such as [firm] were restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, forcing trading desks to focus strictly on market making. Obviously, there are exceptions, and no desk is ever going to be able to 100% hedge out their exposure, but largely, the focus is on generating profits through the bid/ask or a spread.

What do we even do in S&T?

Obviously, S&T is a pretty broad field, but since Dodd-Frank and specifically the Volcker Rule, S&T boils down to serving as a market maker to financial clients as opposed to taking proprietary positions. Whether that’s in fixed-income, equities, commodities, or rates, sales and traders are tasked with providing liquidity to markets and managing the subsequent risk. There are a couple products that aren’t as clear cut, like QIS, and a diversity of roles including sales, trading, and structuring, but generally S&T is about serving financial clients and managing the resulting risk. 

What are the major divisions or product-groups of S&T?

Obviously, it depends on the firm - [I know at this firm that its broken up by _________] - but generally, you’ll have equities, fixed-income, commodities, and currencies/rates. From there, it can get as specific as short-end US rates or as general as Asian FX, but that’s what the categories look like overall. 

Who are our clients?

Because of the size and the type of products that we generally trade, our clients are going to be large, institutional investors like insurance companies, pension funds, and corporates as well as speculative firms like hedge funds, and asset managers. Obviously, it all depends on the desk - treasuries, for example, might be more in demand by institutional clients, whereas low quality sovereigns and corporate debt might be of more interests to speculators.

Is there a particular area or areas of S&T that interests you?

I think it’s so hard to say at this point which areas of S&T that interest me, especially since it’s so early in my career, but if I had to choose, I think that I’d find the fixed-income space most interesting. I have a bit of exposure to the field through my actuarial experience and extracurriculars, and there’s a wide variety of issuers and projects that keep the field interesting. That being said, I haven’t even touched the desk, much less understood it yet, and I’m sure that my opinion is bound to change so I’m very much open to exploration.

Do you think you’d rather be in sales or trading? Why?

I think my background is a bit more quantitative, especially with some of my experience in mathematics and computer science, so I think that I would rather be on the trading side in order to take advantage of that. On top of that, I think that while I’m reasonably extroverted, I’m not sure I am to the extent that I could spend all day talking to clients and going out with them. Taking both of those things into account, ultimately, I feel that being a little bit more in the weeds of the book is something I’d really enjoy doing in the long-run. I also think my extroversion could help in communicating with quants and sales people who may be affiliated with the desk; trying to bridge the gap between what traders need and what quants and sales people can help provide. So, I think trading would likely be the right fit.

Have you talked to many people who work in the industry?

I’ve talked to a couple dozen across desks and seniority, including a couple at [firm] such as [] and []. I think that those chats really helped me get a better feel for the industry as well as understand what the culture looks like. From those conversations, I found that I really enjoyed the kinds of people that make their way into S&T, and it’s a field where I can really see both my skillset and my personality fit in.

Tell me about a time when you worked on a data project. 

One time I worked on a data project was during my most recent internship, where I was tasked with matching hundreds of columns of data between one of the company’s subsidiaries and its own database using SQL. Normally, this would have been a simple task, since the columns were functionally identical; however, due to technical issues and poor data management, the columns were in different orders and had different names. 
After initially analyzing the problem, I was stumped. After struggling to make much progress, I decided to take a step back and seek help from my co-workers. While none of them had specifically worked on this data, one of them noticed that the irregular naming convention was familiar and gave me a naming resource that he had used. Using that information, I was able to develop a Python macro that translated the irregular column names into their correct names. Through this, I completed the project in just a couple of days as opposed to weeks.
This experience helped me become more comfortable in asking for help as well as more proactive in finding potential ways to automate and streamline processes. As a result of my internship, I hope to continue these efforts in my career as well as far into my future.

Tell me about a time when you had to work under a lot of pressure. 

One time I had to work under a lot of pressure was during my most recent internship. Shortly after I started working, one of the actuaries on my team went on maternity leave, only to be followed a week later by an actuary taking paternity leave. Yet another person was completing an internal transfer to another team, which meant that a team of five was now down to two. As a result, I had to take on some unfinished projects, forcing me to work on 3-4 major projects simultaneously and placing a lot of pressure. Just as I was about to get overwhelmed, I sat down with my manager and worked with her to determine which projects were higher and lower priorities. Using that list, I was able to focus my energies on the most important projects and make a solid contribution toward a number of projects without being overwhelmed. 
From this experience, I’ve gained experience not only dealing with multiple projects but also working under a lot of pressure. As S&T is a technical and fast-paced field that places a lot of pressure on traders and salespeople, I hope to be able to apply this experience in my career and the future.

Tell me when you showed attention to detail. 

One time I showed attention to detail was when I was designing a dashboard in my most recent internship. While helping to add a feature, I noticed one of the KPIs displayed on the dashboard was just slightly but materially off from a value that I had calculated manually. While I could have written it off as a rounding error, I decided to look a bit deeper. After doing some meticulous spot-checking, I finally found that the dashboard wasn’t including a certain subset of policies that should have been contained within the analysis, causing the small but still visible difference. In particular, a small coding error - an expression that should've been inside a parenthesis - was causing this issue. When I reached out to my manager, she remarked that she had never noticed it before and that it could be a potential reason for some issues in our quarterly reconciliations. As a result, I was able to tweak the code to correct the issue, helping to ensure consistency as well as potentially solve larger problems down the line,
That experience taught me the importance of showing attention to detail and going the extra mile when necessary. In a field as precise as S&T, where small mistakes can make a world of difference, I’d hope to apply the same level of attention to detail to catch similar mistakes and ensure that the work I oversee is as robust as possible.

Give an example of a time when you had to gather information to solve a problem. What was the situation? What actions did you take? What happened as a result of your actions?

One time I had to gather information to solve a problem was during my most recent internship. As part of my work during that internship, I had to perform a deep dive analysis on the trend of a specific kind of corporate insurance claim. After analyzing the data, we noticed a disturbing uptick in the number of insurance claims, including in multiple companies that we covered, leaving me to figure out why that might be.
In order to try and resolve this situation, I decided to first play around with the data, breaking it into as many different categories as possible to explain the result. After gathering the necessary information and breaking it out within various dimensions, I was able to isolate the upward trend to a few specific categories, including the type of company and the size of the company. However, my work wasn't over just yet - on top of that, I had to explain why the claims were up. So to go down that path, I performed some basic market research, eventually realizing that specific sectors, like technology, and smaller companies were facing the liabilities that we insured against due to trends in artificial intelligence and a more active IPO/SPAC market.
I eventually presented this to senior leadership, who were very interested to hear my analysis given the sudden uptick. As a result of my actions, they immediately repositioned their insurance universe to move away from technology and smaller companies, helping to stay ahead of market trends. From this experience, I've learned the importance of not only gathering but also going the extra mile by analyzing that information. I'm sure that I will face a number of complex problems in the future, and I'll be sure to use my analytical skills to face whatever problem might await me in my career and in my future.

Tell me about a time when you prioritized tasks and assignments for a project. What was the project? What actions did you take to organize the work? What happened as a result of your actions?

One time I prioritized task and assignments for a project was also during one of my previous internships, where I was helping to develop a dashboard to display key financials for the C-suite in the wake of some new accounting changes. The dashboard was planned to have a number of pages, all of which had different priorities and needs, which meant that I had to be very precise in prioritizing between a number of different tasks.
The first thing I did to organize my work was to talk to the people who needed this project and figure out the deadlines and priority that I needed to assign to each component. For example, one slide was necessary for financial reporting that needed to be finished within one week, so I noted it as such; some of the other slides were more "good to have", putting them closer to the bottom in terms of priority. Secondly, I noted which pages depended on what kinds of data, helping me to see what pages might be easy to do together or depend on the same data. Especially since there was an old dashboard that I could use for some of the basic functionality, this really helped me see what I could potentially do simultaneously. Using that information, I created a priority to-do list, starting from most important, while also giving thought to if some pages could be done together. I also then create a very rough time estimation of how long I thought each part would take, and made sure that I could meet the deadline if necessary.
After implementing my strategy, I had a very clear sense of direction and was able to really effectively work on the project, always knowing what to do next whenever I finished a feature or aspect rather than sit and guess. As a result, I was able to deliver the project on time and even often, ahead of schedule, which helped the company's overall operations. From this experience, I've learned how to effectively prioritize my work within a project; as I'm sure I'll encounter complex projects in the future, I'll be sure to implement similar strategies in my career and my future.

We all make mistakes, even in our field of expertise. Give me an example of a recent mistake you made in your area of expertise. What did you do and how did you learn from this?  What was the situation? What did you do? What happened as a result of your actions?

One time I made a mistake in my area of expertise was during a recent group project in my operations management class, where due to my experience with data science, I was assigned to create graph and draw conclusions from financial data that I was given. After doing some analysis, I gave my work to the group leader, and since they didn't have too much experience with coding or data science overall, they simply just took me as my word. After we submitted, I looked back on the presentation we created and noticed a data point that looked very irregular; looking back at my code, I realized that I had wrote it incorrectly, leading to inflated numbers that we used within our arguments.
Even though the mistake might not have been caught by the professor, I still decided to own up to my mistake, first telling my group members and then chatting with my professor about the issue since the deadline had passed. Since I owned up to my mistake, the professor let me resubmit the presentation with the new code and graphical changes, ensuring that what we delivered was truthful. And while we did lose some points for turning in a late project, we still got a very good grade on the project.
From this, I learned that making mistakes is inevitable, no matter how experience one might be. However, what's important is not to cover up your mistakes but instead to own up to them, accept the consequences, and learn from them. Even though revealing a mistake might make you look bad or not smart, I've learned that you have to be comfortable with sharing that you made a mistake and making sure to grow from it. In such a complex and technical field like markets, I'm sure to make mistakes; but in my future and my career, I'll be sure to own up to them and learn from them so that I can work towards being as mistake-free as I can be. 

Would you ask for help/figure stuff out on your own? 

I would generally say that I lean towards figuring out stuff out on my own. For example, in my most recent internship, my main project over the summer was to utilize SQL to help integrate a subsidiary company’s data into the main database. The only problem was that I’d only sparingly used SQL before, and so much of the syntax was still relatively new to me. While I certainly could’ve asked my manager, who had a lot of experience doing this work, questions about syntax, I decided to try and utilize my own resources - namely the internet - to ensure that I wasn’t wasting her time. That didn’t always work, unfortunately, but if I did eventually have to ask for help, I made sure to come prepared with a description of my problem and exactly what I had tried to stop it. That way, when I did eventually approach my manager, she had a good idea of what the problem actually was and could genuinely help me. 

When was a time you created something new and what was the feedback you got? 

One time I created something new was during my most recent internship, where I developed an automated email tool that saved copies of each email with specific names based on information within the email. Previously, that role had been delegated to an intern who manually had to be forwarded the email and then look through large PDF files to find the required information. After doing that several times, I realized that the process was relatively standardized, and could potentially be automated. As a result, I utilized VBA and some Outlook tools to help automatically classify and store these emails in a network folder, as well as archive them for future use.
After presenting the tool, I got very positive feedback not only from my team but also from other divisions hoping to automate similar archival tasks. While I wasn’t able to help them all, the experience taught me the importance of looking for potential opportunities to improve existing processes and bring technology to the fold. So in the future and in my career, I hope to be able to utilize my technical skills to improve processes whenever relevant and necessary. 

What is a risk that you took that did not pay off ? 

In one of my internships, I was asked to add rows as well as a derived column to an SQL database that I was working on. However, upon looking at the data, I felt that it could be made simpler by redesigning the database structure. Without consulting my manager, I took a risk and went ahead with the redesign in addition to the necessary improvements.
Unfortunately, when I completed the task and told my manager with a smile on my face, I learned that the existing database structure had several important aspects to it that couldn’t be represented by my new organization. Even though he appreciated the enthusiasm, he told me that I would have undo all of my hard work, on top of the existing project. From that, I learned that while I should always be looking for ways to contribute to existing processes in my career, I also need to ensure that I’m aware of the entire situation. 

Let’s say a client calls you and starts to scream about something. How would you handle that?

Obviously, situations like these are inevitable especially in such a high-stress environment like finance. Even if their rage isn’t because of me - which it hopefully isn’t - I think that the best course of action is simply to try and genuinely listen, understand, and let the client vent off their frustrations. From my personal experience, I know that people just sometimes lose control of their temper, and by giving them that space, I’d hope to help them let off some steam and help them return to a more normal mood. And by genuinely listening, I might even be able to help them find a level head, which might help me solve tbheir issue and help maintain that client’s relationship with [firm].

What’s something that is not on your resume? 

Something that’s not on my resume is my experience in high school serving as a tutor for a local university. Since my high school was attached to a local university, I was able to work as a tutor in the university’s learning center, teaching students by appointment primarily in mathematics but also in other courses. Throughout my months there, I worked with dozens of students - often a number of regulars - and helped them achieve the academic success that they were seeking.
My experience as a tutor not only deepened my own understanding of topics but also provide invaluable in helping me to express my knowledge. In particular, it helped me develop an ability to use analogies and visual representations to explain often complex mathematical concepts, which I’ve used throughout my life. In a field with as many moving parts as S&T, I hope to be able to continue using this skill to not only effectively explain my thinking but also, in the future, help communicate my expertise to those who come after.

What do you think makes a great trader or sales person?

I’d say that a great trader is someone who’s able to think very quickly on their feet and is highly adaptable. In a field like S&T, where conditions are constantly changing, I think that managing a book effectively means being able to be decisive in moments of change and reacting quickly to changes in the market landscape. That goes hand-in-hand with having the diligence in understanding the kinds of risks and exposure that one has in a book, as well as maintaining a level of objectivity.
In terms of sales, I’d say effective communication and empathy is what makes for a great trader or sales person. I think communication’s important because at some level, you’re trying to sell a product, and really being able to listen and understand what a client’s needs are, especially if they don’t even know what they want themselves. Especially when things go wrong, I think empathy’s important; obviously, not every transaction is going to be a success for the client and we’re pretty easy to blame, and really being able to put yourself in their shoes and understand their frustrations can really help key clients in a good relationship with the firm. 

What do you think the role of a summer analyst is in S&T?

I’d say that it’s probably to be curious and learn as much as you can. I’d say that summer analysts can definitely be valuable by providing fresh perspectives, especially from a technology standpoint, but for a number of regulatory and practical reasons, it’s going to be very difficult for us to provide direct value. So the best thing we can do is to really understand what the industry looks like and figure out what desk/product is the right one for us without getting in the way. By soaking in all that knowledge, I think we’ll be ready to hit the ground running in a full-time role.

How would you structure an email? 

Due to the fast-paced nature of S&T, I would structure my emails to be short and straight to the point. I’d try to condense all the information needed into a couple of sentences to ensure that no one’s time is wasted.

From 1 being the most intelligent to 10 being the hardest worker, who do you think makes the best analyst? 

8. I think that there’s obviously some level of intelligence required to work in the field, but what I’ve observed is that the hardest workers tend to outperform those who are naturally gifted. 
While S&T requires a blend of market intelligence, mathematical intuition, and adaptability that some might not have, these skills can be learned with enough practice and diligence, whereas those who are only intelligent might fall behind in keeping up with such a fast-paced role. 

Where do you see yourself in five years?

Well, ideally, here full-time! But more seriously, I’d love to be in a role where I can stay connected to the markets while developing a really deep understanding of a specific product or area. On top of that, I think I’d love to be in a position to share the knowledge I’ve developed over those five years to more junior employees and be a mentor.

What has been your impression of [bank] after talking to some of our S&T folks?

I have a really great impression of [firm]! Specifically, after talking with some people - including ___, ____, and ___, - I’d really got the impression that this is a place where junior analysts get a lot of responsibility while also having a flat organizaitional structure and a strong mentorship system. On top of that, everyone really seems to enjoy their job, and that’s really led me to be interested in the firm. 

Why this firm/bank?

There’s definitely a number of things that drew me to [firm], but first and foremost was the culture. 
In my conversations with associates and analysts across Global Markets, almost all of them cited the collaborative culture and how willing co-workers and managers were to help each other succeed. Furthermore, especially in relation to other firms, they kept stressing how [firm] fosters a shared notion of success. As someone who’s not very far along in my career, that’s something that helps [firm] stand out from the other firms. 
Furthermore, while I’m definitely interested in the sales & trading field, I’m not too sure what specific market I’d like to explore as a career. While I certainly lean towards some regions and products, I think that [firm]’s rotational program really allows me to get hands-on experience on in a number of markets and figure out what suits me, rather than realize too late that the area I’ve been assigned isn’t something I actually like. I know that a number of other firms have rotational programs, but I think [firm] is is unique because of its presence as a French bank, which allows it to really access a number of other markets that might not traditionally be accessible to other banks in the United States and even abroad. 
Lastly, I’m also really drawn to [firm]’s position as a leading French and European bank. As someone who’s parents immigrated to the United States, I’ve always been interested in looking at trends and events outside the US, especially in Asia and Europe. While the US is obviously a hugely important market, it’s very important to me that I’m able to explore and get perspectives from outside the US, rather than work inside a bubble. As a result, I believe that any potential position at [firm] will help me develop a strong understanding of not just US markets, but truly global markets as well. 
As a result, for these three reasons - the culture, the specific program, and the firm’s legacy - I’m particularly interested in [firm]. 

Tell me about a time you faced an ethical dilemma. 

One time I faced an ethical dilemma was in one of my student organizations, where I am responsible for managing the freshman program and selecting the individuals who’ll be a part of it. As a result, when one of my close friends was interested in joining the program, I was happy to oblige and help them through the process. However, after the interviews were completed, I got a lot of negative feedback regarding my friend’s fit for the program and the club overall, but I had the final decision. As a result, I faced an ethical dilemma as to whether to simply just let my friend into the program - probably without any meaningful consequence - or to trust others and sacrifice some of my personal rapport.
In the end, I decided to put the club’s interest above mine and forgo the ethical dilemma entirely. While it letting my friend through definitely would have been the easiest option, I knew that it certainly wasn’t the right one. And while I was worried to break the news, after explaining the situation to my friend, he wasn’t mad at all, and nothing ever changed. As a result, from that experience, I realized how to effectively deal with tough ethical dilemmas, and its something that I’m sure I’ll continue in my career and in my life. 

Please describe a time when you either witnessed or became aware of behavior that was inappropriate or unethical? How did you handle this information?

One time I witnessed an ethical dilemma was in one of my student organizations, where I'm part of a group that selects the individuals who’ll be a part of it. During the initial review process, I saw that one of my group members was heavily pushing a candidate that the rest of the group didn't see as particularly qualified. As a result, we failed to advance him to the interview stage, but as I was sending out the emails for the interview round, I noticed that he had actually been selected to move on. Thinking it might have just been a mistake, I looked at the edit history and saw that my group member who had pushed the candidate had actually changed the interview list, kicking someone out of the process. Later, I learned that them two were very close friends; despite this, I knew that this was wrong.
I handled the situation by bringing it up at our next routine meeting, showing him the evidence but also saying that it could have just been an honest mistake or slip-up. However, he owned up to his error, telling us what h had did and immediately apologizing to us for his ethical oversight. While he was reprimanded somewhat for the incident after we reported it through official channels, he still remained part of the team, and eventually gained back our trust. Even though I could have easily turned a blind eye and preserved my own relationship with my group member, who I was also friends with, I spoke up without being outright accusatory. I think that this balance, alongside the use of official reporting channels, really helped me preserve my relationship while also ensuring that the unethical behavior did not continue. As a result, this experience is something I'd like to continue in my career and my future.

Let’s say you’re on the desk and you observe something that you think is unethical or wrong (either that someone did or said). What would you do?

I think that would be a really difficult position, especially since I’d probably be one of the youngest or most junior people on the desk. I think that the best course of action would be to seek some level of advice from somebody that I trust - maybe my manager or a mentor - and describe what I saw, keep it anonymous. If they agreed that what I saw was strange, I’d either try and speak up with their support or work through whatever compliance channels might be applicable. 

Let’s say that someone you know is sharing all the answers for an upcoming exam with other students in a class because they somehow got them early (or they’re the same as past years). What would you do? 

I’d definitely go ahead and inform the professor about the situation, even I might be potentially harming myself. Don’t get me wrong - I’m a huge advocate of “work smarter, not harder” - but I think that not saying anything would be fundamentally unfair to the students who didn’t have access to those answers and instead did it “the right way”. As a result, I think it would really be my ethical responsibility to speak up about it, and allow the professor to address the issue as they see fit. 

Tell me about a time you sacrificed your self interest for someone else. 

In my sophomore year, I was offered the position of president of a student organization here at NYU due to my previous work for the club. On first glance, the position of president would allow me to make a strong and positive impact on the club, while also giving me access to exclusive NYU opportunities and events. In essence, it was strictly within my self-interest. However, I also knew that one of my friends in leadership had always wanted to be president, and had a wealth of ideas on how to improve the club. Most importantly, they had a strong passion for the club, and I knew that they would be a highly impactful president.
After considering the potential implications, I decided to sacrifice my self-interest and decline the position, while simultaneously recommending my friend for president. While taking the position was clearly the best option for my self-interest, I knew that it came with negative implications for hardworking members of the club. Under my friend’s leadership, the club was able to host a number of important events and grow its membership rapidly. From that decision, I learned that when making a decision, I have to consider its implications for both myself and its indirect effects on others. In my future career, I’m sure to be presented with opportunities to sacrifice my self-interest for others; from this experience, I’ve learned how necessary it is to evaluate if the impact of my decisions on others outweighs my own personal gain.

What makes for effective communication in your view?

I think effective communication comes down to knowing your audience and adapting your language to be as clear and understandable as possible. For example, I think there’s a huge difference between how I might detail the risk of my book would probably be very different if I was talking to someone in risk than perhaps a fellow trader or senior member on my desk, with the former being very detailed and with more understandable terminology, whereas the latter might be laden with jargon. Or say, if I’m presenting to a client, I might focus my presentation on being concise and gloss over some of the background research and data analysis, while sharing something internally might require a bit more discussion of how I got to that point. 

When was a time you had to tell someone bad news? 

In a student organization here at NYU, I’m in charge of selecting candidates for a workshop-style program. Unfortunately, that means I often have to both good and bad news to a number of people, including some of my closest friends. One such instance was during last semester when someone I had known since the first day of school unfortunately wasn’t selected for the workshop. Rather than simply hide behind a screen and deliver the news through a cold email, I made an effort to tell him in person so that he’d have a more genuine experience in hearing the bad news. While he was understandably unhappy with the news, he said that he appreciated me telling him genuinely rather than simply dancing around the subject, and it hasn’t changed our friendship at all. From this experience, I’ve learned about the importance of taking time to deliver news to ensure that they feel valued, no matter how bad it is. While I hope not to ever deliver bad news in my future career, I hope to deliver it in a genuine heartfelt manner.

How would your peers/teammates/boss describe you?

My peers/subordinates/teammates would describe me as someone’s who diligent but also always willing to help. In all the work that I do - whether school-related, extracurricular, or work-related - I always put my best effort forward and try to finish my assignments ahead of time rather than right before the deadline. I find that this strategy not only helps me produce my best work but also ensures that I don’t get overwhelmed by everything that’s going on in my life. 
In addition, while I do get down to business, I’m always willing to share what I’ve learned to help others understand. Even though some of our classes are curved, I think it’s more important that we all learn, even if it means that I might potentially drop a letter grade or two. These two qualities have been an excellent combination in not only keeping on top of my work but also sharing my knowledge with others, and at [xyz] firm, I hope to be able to continue these qualities in order to help foster a serious but also caring atmosphere. 

What are some of your strengths and weaknesses?

Strengths: 
Curiosity: One of my strengths is my curiosity. My high school curriculum had a major focus on STEM courses, and while I knew that wasn’t where I wanted to be, I developed a genuine curiosity for every subject. For example, in high school, we had to take not only biology courses but also an accompanying biology lab where one of our projects was to dissect a fetal pig. While I had no intentions of going into anything even remotely related to biology, I put my best effort into understanding the necessary material and performing the dissection. In an S&T environment, this manifests in being able to contribute to work in a diversity of both products and regions, even if it isn’t something I have a personal connection to. 
Adaptability: Another one of my strengths is my adaptability. I first developed this skill in high school, when I worked with a professor on academic research surrounding applications of artificial intelligence. Even though I had no experience in the field - or frankly, computer science at all - I was able to grow to meet the challenge in front of me, becoming a key part of the research lab. As I grew more experienced, I also developed a second type of adaptability in being open to changing my process if I encounter a better or more accurate method - which, to be honest, happened quite often. In my career and future, I hope to be able to use these two sides of adaptability to help ensure that I can be effective.
Diligence: Another one of my strengths is my diligence. In my most recent internship, I had an assignment where I had to perform a deep dive analysis on some new litigation data. Not only did I have to replicate calculations and methods from scratch, I had to also manually reconcile my values with previous versions of the analysis in spite of retroactive data changes. I believe that this experience, as well as many others, highlights my diligence. And as I move towards a highly detail-oriented field like S&T, I’d hope to continue utilizing my diligence in my career and in my future.
Independence: I’d say that another one of my strengths would be my independence. For example, in my internship at Globe Life, I was assigned to create a dashboard that visualized key financial information for our executive board. Even though it required me to use a programming language and dashboard software that I’ve never used before, I decided to take my own initial stabs on the design and workings of the project. With a little bit of trial & error, I was eventually able to make a lot of progress on the project on my own without having to bother my already overworked data science team. In a field where I’m going to be entrusted to constantly make my own decisions early on, I think that my independence will help me succeed in my future and my career. 
Weaknesses:
Not trying new things. One of my weaknesses is being afraid to try things outside my comfort zone. Throughout my life, I’ve often tried to stick with what I’m familiar with, which has often held me back from seeking opportunities that are necessary for me to grow. As a result, I’ve been trying to become more willing to take calculated risks - within reason, of course - and that’s something I’m hoping to do more of in my life, and especially in a potential career. 
Getting caught up on the details, missing the forest for the trees: Another one of my weaknesses is that because I try to make everything my best work, I sometimes get caught up too much in the details. In other words, I miss the forest for the trees in my pursuit of putting my best foot forward. As I’ve experienced college, I’ve learned to live with “good enough” on multiple occasions, which has helped me not get caught up, but I’m still working on striking that perfect balance between diligence and heuristics.
Get pulled in too many directions: Another one of my weaknesses is that sometimes I get pulled in too many directions. Even though I’m very interested in a variety of topics - which is certainly a good thing - sometimes it forces me to spread my time too thin and makes me less effective than I know I can be. As a result, I’ve tried to become a bit more controlled in the opportunities I take on, especially at school with so many opportunities at NYU. As a result, I hope to be able to explore a variety of topics while not losing focus on the critical projects that need to be accomplished. 
Not asking for help: I think that one of my weaknesses is that I’m sometimes a bit too hesitant to ask for help. Obviously, independence is a good thing, but I sometimes get so dedicated to trying to figure something out myself which leads me to spend much longer on something than I should. As a result, I’ve been trying to find a balance between independence and being willing to ask others while I’m in college, which is a skill I’m sure will be critical in my career and in my future.

What’s your greatest strength?

I’d say that my greatest strength is my curiosity. Throughout high school and college, I’ve always been exposed to a wide array of fields and worked to genuinely learn and understand all of them, from athletic science to zoology. I think that in an environment like S&T, where there’s obviously a lot to learn, that my curiosity will really help me explore the field and develop not only a depth but breadth of understanding.

What’s your greatest weakness?

I’d say that my greatest weakness is that I’m a bit of a perfectionist and get caught up on trying to make something perfect. Obviously it’s not a bad thing to want to make something perfect, but whether it be school projects or extracurricular work, it often causes me to spend way more time than I should on tasks that are “good enough”. This is definitely something I’ve been working on since coming to college, and I’ve made some progress, but it’s something that I still am trying to work on.

Tell me about a time when you were a leader. 

An example of when I was a leader was when I headed an underclassman mentorship program for my school’s actuarial society. Despite being only a sophomore and relatively junior in leadership, I saw that many of the upperclassmen weren’t taking the initiative to lead the workshop, especially since they had finished their recruiting seasons. As a result, I decided to take the initiative and lead the workshop alongside some other sophomores. Using the workshop leaders who were active, I was able to assign them to projects based on their preferences and strengths, helping to kick the workshop into high gear. Despite some hiccups due to our collective lack of experience, we were able to run a highly successful program that received strong reviews. 
This experience showed me the importance of taking the initiative even when it might not be expected of me. Furthermore, my experience effectively and efficiently delegating tasks amongst a large group of people is something I’d hope to continue into my career as I hopefully take on greater and greater leadership responsibilities. 

Tell me about a time when you were a follower. 

For a student organization here at NYU, we had to plan an event where current members could mingle and network with alumni. As I was simply a freshman at the time, I decided to be a follower as I had no experience planning an event like this. To try and contribute, I proactively asked the leaders what I could do to help out. While they were caught a bit off guard by my forwardness, they gave me assignments that I could easily handle, like booking the rooms, purchasing refreshments, and organizing the logistics of the event. On top of that, I took the initiative to figure out where we were lagging behind, such as proposing a potential design setup and event schedule that had been behind schedule because the assigned member hadn’t been feeling well. In part due to my efforts, the event came together beautifully, with many of the leaders thanking me for my contributions individually. 
From this experience, I learned how valuable being proactive and taking initiative as a follower can be in helping something come to life. On top of those traits, I also realized that there are opportunities where being a follower can be just as valuable as being a leader; in my future career, I hope to apply all three of these realizations to key projects and deliverables when the need arises.

Tell me about a time you worked in a collaborative environment/worked on a team?

One time I worked on a team was during a group presentation in my operations management class, where we were tasked with analyzing the product and cash flow of a company. I decided to team up with two of my friends, but we quickly ran into a problem because two of us weren’t very well-versed in corporate finance and financial statement analysis due to our career interests - which, you might be able to guess from this interview, included me - whereas the last person was really interested in investment banking and thus knew this stuff like the back of her hand but not familiar with the actually data analysis required.
Since I was the leader of the group, I decided to play to each individual’s strengths and assign them work that best fit their knowledge and skills. For example, for my IB-focused friend, I tasked her with looking at the operational side of the business in terms of looking at various financial metrics and how the company cycled it cash. For my more quantitative friend, I tasked him with webscraping necessary data and analyzing it to get a better picture of product flow, as well as doing statistical work on various trends that we saw within the data. Since I’m a little bit more of a generalist compared to them too, I helped on both sides and almost served as a liaison between these two parallel but intertwined work streams. That strategy was really successful - we got, I think, an A- or an A - and I think it really helped me see how important it is for a leader to be put people in places where they can be most effective. Obviously, I’m bound to encounter a bunch of people with widely varying skillsets in my future, and being able to utilize them effectively is something I’d hope to continue in my career and my future. 

When was the time you had to get help from another team member in your group? 

As part of the Quantitative Finance Society at NYU, I had a group project where I needed to utilize concepts from different investment strategies to develop a single, unified trade idea. As someone who is definitely more knowledgeable about macro products but not as much about equity and more algorithmic strategies, I knew that I would have to rely on my other group members’ expertise to help develop a cohesive trade idea. As the trade idea heavily relied on the macro portion of our strategy, I got help from my other team members and sought their expertise on various trade ideas that I suggested. Furthermore, because I wasn’t as experienced as they were, I met with them to hear about the basics of their strategies and potentially use that information in our trade. 
After plenty of brainstorming, we eventually found an interesting idea that effectively combined aspects of each investment strategy. Without seeking help from others, however, I’m certain that I would not have been able to come up with a cohesive trade idea. From this experience, I realized the importance of asking for help and seeking knowledge from others; in a field as technical as S&T, I’m sure to need help from others and utilize what I’ve learned in my career.

Describe the type of people you don’t get along well with?

I’d say that I try to get along with everybody, regardless of who they are. However, I often struggle to get along well with people who, once they form an opinion, are incredibly set in their views and aren’t interested in changing their minds even if it’s something that they don’t know a lot about. Obviously, I think there’s a lot of merit to being confidentent and holding your ground - changing your mind once you experience pushback isn’t a good look either - but genuinely, it feels like I’m talking to a brick wall. 

Tell me about a time you failed as a leader. 

One time where I failed as a leader was when I was chosen to present an interesting case study at a student insurance organization’s general meeting. A prominent local insurer dropped 50% in one day following a scathing short-seller report, and since it was a company I had interned at just one year prior, the club leadership wanted me to lead a small team to create a presentation about the company and the allegations contained as an example of bad insurance practices. 
Since had the most experience with the topic, I naively decided to handle the presentation largely by myself, only giving the other members a few relatively simple parts of the project. When my team members reached out to ask what they do, I waved them off and told them that‘d be able to handle it. Unsurprisingly, I became overwhelmed by how much work the presentation was and realized my mistake; from there, I brought the other members back to the fold, leaving them responsible for large swaths of the presentation. And while we were able to turn out a decent product, that represented a huge failure in leadership. Rather than trust those who I was assigned to lead, I didn’t even allow them to contribute - the most important job of a leader. From that, I realized how tempting it can be as a leader to want to control everything yourself; however, the job of a leader isn’t to do everything, but to enable and trust others to complete what needs to be done. Throughout leadership opportunities both in school and in the workplace, I’ve applied this lesson and learned to let go of every minute detail and learned to entrust responsibilities to those I lead. As I progress through my career, I hope to continue this perspective on leadership and ensure that I’m a genuine leader, rather than a “lead doer”.

Tell me about a time when you had to resolve a conflict in your team. 

One time I had to resolve a conflict on my team was as part of a team project for a student organization that I was a part of. Our main deliverable was to use data science tools to solve a critical business problem, and since our group was massive - almost 6 people - it was very hard for us to decide what problem we wanted to even address in the first place. Some of the more quantitative-minded members of the group wanted to do something closer to markets, advocating for a online market microstructure competition. However, the more junior members of the group weren’t interested in such a project, instead hoping to utilize machine learning for basic supply chain optimization. Since the divide was evenly split - 3 and 3 - it was paramount that we came to a mutual conclusion.
To try and resolve this conflict, I tried my best to mediate between the two groups, hearing them both out and allowing for effective discussion. We eventually realized the reasons for the huge divide was because the upperclassmen were recruiting, and wanted a project that they could talk about in their interviews, whereas the more junior individuals were not as interested and simply wanted to develop their skills. In order to resolve this conflict, we came to a compromise where we would employ two strategies to try and solve the complex microstructure problem, where the upperclassmen would use more advanced quantitative skills in one and the underclassmen would use more basic strategies and ideas. In thai way, both side could fulfill their obligation for the extracurricular program, while also getting what they wanted from the project. As a result, we were able to resolve the conflict without splitting the team, showing the importance of effective communication and compromise. In my future and my career, I’ll be sure to utilize similar strategies to resolve future conflicts in teams that I’m part of.

Tell me about a time when you had to work across cross-cultural boundaries. 

In one of my economics classes, we had a group presentation in which we needed to make an argument for a contentious issue in society and justify it using microeconomics concepts. Since the groups were assigned randomly, my group members encompassed several different cultures due to NYU’s diversity and size. We were assigned the issue of student loan forgiveness; however, since a number of students in the group came from abroad, they had differing views on the role of government and societal welfare. For example, the students from East Asia felt strongly about individual responsibility and efficiency, finding student loan forgiveness to be a complete waste of money. A student from South America, as well as many students from the States, saw student loan forgiveness as a necessary part of social welfare.
As a result, our group quickly reached an impasse on what side to take. In order to help resolve this divide, we decided to give each side an opportunity to make their case in front of the group while also interweaving their cultural backgrounds. In the end, we would decide on which side we found more convincing, and come to a compromise regarding the project. After hearing both sides out, we eventually decided to support student loan forgiveness, while also noting the inherent issues surrounding the role of government in cultures around the world. From this project, I’ve gained valuable experience in navigating cross-cultural boundaries as well as developing solutions to address this. In my career and future, I hope to take initiative to address cultural divides to ensure that I can ensure everyone’s cultural viewpoints are included.

Tell me about a time when being part of a team did not work. 

In high school, my friends and I founded a small chess club in order to promote the love of the game. We were great friends, so we assumed that the club would be successful without sitting down to truly discuss our feelings about the club and the direction we wanted to take. Because we never honestly talked about our individual visions for the club, it quickly fell apart. In particular, our different opinions and levels of commitment to the club meant that we often butted heads about new initiatives and events that we wanted to host. Eventually, we became unable to get anything done at all, and the club effectively fell apart.
After reflecting on that experience, I realized that being part of a team is more than just getting along - it’s also about sharing the same aspirations and vision. And because we couldn't take just a couple of hours to be able to do something as simple as express our true feelings, an entire year’s worth of effort went down the drain. In the future, as both a leader and team member, I’d hope to ensure everyone in a team shares the same vision so that no more work has to ever go down the drain in my career. 

Tell me about a time you faced an unsolvable conflict. 

In high school, I was part of the leadership of a student organization, where I played a role in choosing captains for our speech and debate team. Even though we had four highly qualified candidates, rules dictated that we could only choose 3. All of them had viable claims to the captaincy - some had directly led our team to success, some had extensive debate experience, and some had strong research and leadership skills. This meant that we would have to snub someone from the job; on top of this, all of these candidates were close friends as part of interactions in the debate team. 
After struggling for hours over the choice, we eventually came up with a solution to our dilemma. There was another leadership position available in another part of our organization that had aspects of debate, and we thought that this candidate’s charisma and drive might actually make her a perfect candidate for that role. After clearly communicating our dilemma and decision, she appreciated our transparency and grudgingly agreed. However, it turns out that the other position was a genuinely strong match for her skill set and allowed her the flexibility to mold that portion into her own image, which led to huge growth in that portion of the club. While this was an imperfect solution, our clear and open communication helped to ease the initial disappointment as well as allow this exceptional member to still contribute to the organization that she loved. As I face conflicts in my career and future, I’ll be sure to use frank and transparent communication to help resolve them, even if no perfect solution exists.

What has been the most challenging experience that you have had to deal with and how did you overcome that challenge?

I’d say that the most challenging experience I’ve had to deal with and overcome was when I started my first internship in the corporate world almost two years ago. As someone whose parents didn't really ever work in the corporate world, there were a lot of unspoken rules and etiquettes that I just didn’t understand as I stumbled through my first few weeks. And since I didn’t really have anyone to lean on, it was really challenging for me to be able to overcome that challenge.
In terms of what I did, I first really tried to seek out help in any way that I could, eventually leaning on my manager at work to help guide me through the corporate world. Even though we’d only known each other a few days at that point, he was more than happy to help me even on the most basic of questions. Using my manager’s help, I worked diligently to be an effective part fo the corporate world, understanding when to contribute as well as to stay quiet, and learning a whole suite of technologies that I’d never seen before in my life. While obviously this is a once-in-a-lifetime challenge, I think that asking for help and being diligent in the face of a challenge is something that will certainly help me overcome any challenge I’ll face in my future and my career. 

Are leaders born or made? 

I would say that leaders are made. While it’s certainly true that some people are naturally a little more outspoken and extroverted than others, I think that anyone can be a leader under the right conditions. For example, as part of my school’s debate team, I was one of the few members who was coming to school in person in the midst of the pandemic. Even though I had always been someone who tried to keep to myself and stick with a loyal group of friends, because of my position, I was thrust into a leadership role in terms of communicating between those attending school remotely and the coaches, who were in-person. Under the pressure of becoming a leader, I rose to the occasion and broke out of my shell, leading practice sessions and lectures to help better the team overall. 
As a result of my experience, I believe that leaders are made. In my future and in my career, I hope to be able to rise to the challenge and lead when necessary, while also encouraging those who might not traditionally think of themselves as leaders to also take charge.

Tell me about a time you had to work in a group and had to adjust to another person’s working style? 

One time I had to adjust to another person’s working style was during a group project in my economics class. Personally, I like to keep my work highly organized, with a high level of standardization and organization. For example, I tend to organize all relevant files in different folders and develop a naming convention, or try to create a standardized template or process for a project to ensure integrity. While this helps keep me focused and on track, it’s also highly time-consuming and superfluous. Some of the others in the group project, on the other hand, were more chaotic and free-flowing in how they organized their work, more focused on the task at hand than any potential integrity concerns. This rift became apparent after our first draft of the slideshow; at our next group meeting, we got into a heated argument as to what would be the best style, with neither side willing to budge. 
To keep the project consistent and on-track, I adapted to the working style by being more relaxed and foregoing many of the organizational tricks I performed subconsciously. Over time, I realized the benefits of being more flexible as opposed to highly structured, and as a result of our team’s adaptation, we were able to deliver a very strong project. In the future, I hope to be able to adapt to groups with diverse working styles as well as learn when being more disordered might be necessary to ensure a project’s success.

What is your biggest accomplishment? 

My biggest accomplishment was actually during high school. My high school was attached to a local college in Texas - sort of an “early college” program - which meant that we were university students. In my senior year, I didn’t have too much to do, which led me to take a job at the college’s tutoring center. During my first week, I had a college student come in who was struggling with Calculus II - as a cybersecurity major, he needed the course for his major, and if he failed it a third time, there was a good chance he wouldn't be able to finish degree on time, if at all. He was pretty close to his wit’s end, and so I tried to help him as much as I could.
He kept coming back - oftentimes multiple visits a week - and I spent dozens of hours that semester specifically helping him with his homework and coaching him through review sessions. On his first exam that semester, he passed a Calculus II exam for the first time, which he said was due to my help. Eventually, he went on to pass the class and is on track to graduate - something he never could have imagined. As a result, it’s my biggest accomplishment not because of any fancy trophy, but because it helped me realize the power of selflessness and a willingness to serve others. As I progress through my career, I’m sure to be in a position where I’ll have to help someone who’s struggling; as a result of this experience, I’d hope to be able to commit time to help them not only survive but thrive.

Tell me about an accomplishment of yours that isn’t on your resume?

The most interesting thing about me that you wouldn't learn from my resume alone is that I'm a pretty avid runner. Obviously, it's a really great way to stay in shape beyond the gym, but I've seriously gotten into distance running and been doing a bunch of 5Ks. And recently, I broke a really important barrier to me - 23 minutes (7.5 min/mile) that I’ve been working on for the better part of 2 years. Right now, I'm training for my first 10K, and if that goes well, I'll have my sights set on a half-marathon and maybe even a full marathon. 

What is your biggest failure? 

I would say that one of my biggest failures came in my senior year in high school, where I served as an executive for a political advocacy organization. While I had been strongly committed to the organization previously, since I was now a senior, I began to deprioritize the organization. This led to incomplete projects and half-hearted events such as an election night watch party where I didn’t even reserve a room, which killed the morale of not only other executives but also the members of the rest of the club. As a result, when it was time to hand the reins to others, there weren’t a lot of takers, and after another year, the club folded for good. To this day, I believe that my individual failure played a huge role in the club’s downfall, and I feel a strong sense of responsibility for my actions. From this experience, I’ve learned the importance of being a leader who is able to back up their words with actions; in leadership opportunities in my future and career, I’d hope to emulate the kind of leader that not only talks the talk, but also walks the walk.

Tell me about a time you failed. What did you learn from it?

One time I failed was when I was playing in an important game for the NYU Ultimate Frisbee team. The night before a key tournament, instead of diligently reviewing some of the niche plays in our playbook to ensure that I was familiar with our strategy, I decided to simply just wing it. Because I failed to prepare, however, I didn’t understand one of our defensive systems well enough. As a result, on a key possession, my lack of preparedness caused us to give up the point and eventually lose the game. 
While there’s definitely a big difference between ultimate frisbee and my potential career, that experience taught me the importance of preparation and diligence. Because others are willing to put their trust in me, I’d hope to be able to repay them by being prepared in my career.

Tell me about a time you regret. 

I think my biggest failure is not being able to become fluent in Mandarin. Since I’m a second-generation immigrant, my grandparents on both sides speak exclusively Mandarin and some dialects. While I would say I’m conversational in Mandarin, I’m far from fluent, which hampers my ability to effectively communicate with them. Oftentimes, I’m not able to explain how I’m doing or how my life is beyond a very simple level. 
Unfortunately, the blame is also on me. When I was younger, I had ample opportunities to develop my Chinese language skills, but I decided to put a minimal amount of effort into them. As a result, not being able to connect fully with them is something that I continually regret. While I’m trying to catch up now, I know it’s much harder to learn languages later in life, and I’m paying the price. Now, the language barrier makes me unable to fully be in their lives without the use of my parents as a sort of pseudo-translator, especially as they are enjoying retirement and old age. I know that they care about me so much, but the fact I couldn’t reciprocate their gratitude is something that holds a big place in my heart. 
From this experience, I’ve promised myself never to put off things that I can do now. Especially as I approach my future and career, I’ve realized that the opportunity to do something important to myself can vanish just as soon as it appears.

What makes you, you? 

I think what makes me, me is a willingness to give back. When I first arrived at NYU, I came from a small school without anyone or any experience to lean on as I began my journey. Thankfully, I was able to meet a number of upperclassmen who served not only as mentors but as genuine friends as I struggled through my freshman year.
As a result of their support, I’ve tried to pay that kindness forward. For example, in one of my student organizations, I became a part of a committee that manages a freshman exploration program for students interested in the macro side of finance. In addition to giving them lectures and assignments, I took the initiative to individually reach out to the workshop members and work with them so they could move towards their individual goals, going above and beyond what’s expected of me as a workshop chair. And as I progress further into my career, I’d hope to continue giving back by going the extra mile and helping those entering the field succeed.

If you could do anything else besides S&T, what would you do?

If I couldn’t be in S&T, I’d still want to stay connected to the markets and macro overall in some way, hopefully at a bank like [firm]. I think there are definitely a couple ways that come to mind - investment banking, especially on the origination side - but I think that the best way to accomplish would be through a role in research, especially one focused on one of the more macro asset classes such as rates/FX, fixed-income, or commodities. My experience doing some basic academic research might come in handy as well, so it’s definitely something I could see myself enjoying and succeeding in. But unfortunately, the other hand is that I wouldn’t have as much of a tangible impact as in S&T. 

Let’s forget about finance. If you could do anything else outside of S&T, what would you do?

Honestly, if I wasn’t in finance, I’d be really interested to go into academia and become a mathematics or computer science professor. Throughout my life, I’ve always really enjoyed sharing my knowledge with others, and I feel that I could really make a positive impact on a lot of people by being a professor, not to mention also being able to really explore these fields through research. 

What character trait have you been trying to improve recently, if any?

I’d say that for most of my life, I’ve probably been more of an introverted person, and I often like to keep within my comfort zone. However, I’ve been trying to improve that by growing the extroverted side of me and being more willing to break out of what’s familiar by joining student organizations and going out of my way to meet new people, especially in college. So far, I’ve been able to meet a bunch of amazing people, but I think I still have room to grow on that front. 

What’s your favorite course been?

So far, I think that my favorite course has been one on mathematical statistics that I took as part of my mathematics major. Often, we kind of just approach statistics as a bunch of complex formulas that we plug and chug through - standard deviation, confidence intervals, test statistics, covariance, etc. - but in that class, we really took a step back and really got into why those formulas “worked”. Even though I didn’t do super well in the class -  in fact, I averaged a C on the exams - I really gained a fundamental rather than formulaic understanding of statistics that I’m not sure I would’ve ever gained on my own. And even though I was way in over my head in that class, I felt like that class really taught me to not be afraid to explore a little, even at the cost of a little bit of GPA. 

Why did you choose your college?

Honestly, because it was the best college to accept me! In a more serious light, as someone who’s lived in the Texas suburbs my entire life, and I’ve always dreamed of living in a big city like New York. So combined with the academic prowess and the opportunities at NYU, it seemed like a perfect fit.

If you could make your college better in one way, what would that be?

If I could make my college better in one way, I think I’d love to try and improve the “school spirit”. As someone with a lot of friends at huge football schools like UT and Texas A&M, it’s really amazing seeing the kind of community that gets built behind school sports. So obviously pretty difficult from a logistical perspective, but I’d love to see way more school sports at NYU. 

If you had 30 days to dedicate yourself to learning something new, what would it be and why?

If I had 30 days to dedicate myself, I'd say that I'd try and genuinely learn another language, such as French, German, or Japanese. While I am conversational in Chinese/Mandarin, I feel that only being truly fluent in English has really limited me from being able to explore the world as much as I have wanted to out of an irrational fear of not speaking the right language. I think that by learning another language, I'd be able to really understand another culture and unlock a whole new world of information that I lose through translation. Especially since I continually regret not becoming fully able to read and write in Chinese, I think that learning a language will really help me become better traveled as well as just allow me to enjoy another culture the way it was meant to be enjoyed.

Tell me three people that you admire? Tell me three people living or dead you’d like to meet?

Winston Churchill - I think he was an incredible leader and someone who showed an incredible amount of resolve in the face of grave danger. 
Henry David Thoreau - He’s known for his actions of civil disobedience, which has come into view recently as perceptions of government have surrounded.
Gordon Ramsay - Obviously, he’s not the nicest person, but I admire his persistence and drive - plus wouldn’t mind learning a couple of chef tips. He’s also an incredibly kind person under the hood and I believe it’s not easy to be such a high-level chef and that could teach me a lot 

What’s your favorite movie?

Oppenheimer. I’ve always been a huge history guy, and I think that Christopher Nolan did an amazing job capturing the feeling of discovery - at least according to my friends in STEM - and also really presented the ethical dilemmas of nuclear weapons. But honestly, it was just an insane visual experience. 
A Man Called Otto
Ratatouille - Anyone can cook!

What’s your favorite book?

The Three-Body Problem (San ti) by Cixin Liu
1984 by George Orwell
Desperate Hours: One Hospital’s Fight to Save a City on the Pandemic’s Front Lines
The Last Olympian by Rick Riordian
All The Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr

Tell me about a few books you’ve read recently?

Fooled by Randomness by Nicholas Taleb
The Republic by Plato
Five Days in London: May 1940

What’s an unpopular opinion that you have? 

Defensive rebounds are a completely meaningless individual basketball statistic. While I certainly agree that rebounds while on offense are incredibly important in allowing a team to get “second chance” points and players should be celebrated for high numbers of offensive rebounds, I don’t think that defensive rebounds are any barometer of skill. The amount of defensive rebounds really just depends on your height, strength, and the position you play, not an indication of any actual basketball skill. While as a team, they do matter in stopping your opponent’s possession, the individual number of rebounds that any player gets is functionally meaningless in terms of their contribution to the team - it’s simply about who’s decided to hang back for the rebound rather than any actual skill.

How do you enjoy spending your free time? 

Of course - one of the main ways I spend my free time is playing ultimate frisbee, whether for the NYU team or on my own. It’s a super amazing sport that really just allows me to take my mind off the pressures of schoolwork and extracurriculars. On top of that, I’m an avid nature photographer - national parks are among my favorite places, but WSP is pretty good too - and love to eat great food, whether that’s home-cooked or around the city. 
