What are some of the major central banks and who are their chairmen / governors?

The Federal Reserve – Jerome Powell
The European Central Bank – Christine Lagarde
The Bank of England – Andrew Bailey
The Bank of Japan – Kazuo Ueda
The Bank of Canada – Tiff Macklem

What is the purpose of a central bank?

Central banks have different mandates. The most prominent central bank – the Fed – has a so-called dual mandate of price stability (inflation of 2%) along with maximum possible employment. Most central banks also have a regulatory and supervisory role of the banking system.

What is the primary tool via which central banks conduct monetary policy?

Central banks primary role – the one most talked about in the media – is setting an overnight interest rate. This rate – for the Fed, the Fed Funds rate – is the interest rate banks pay for overnight borrowing in the federal funds market. Setting a lower Fed Funds rate permeates the entire financial system, bringing down interest rates on government debt across the yield curve (usually) along with mortgage rates. As you can imagine, the Fed Funds rate doesn’t necessarily translate into lower credit costs across the board invariably. For example, credit card interest rates don’t go down in lockstep with the overnight rate.

What are other major policy tools of a central bank?

Reserve Requirements
Amount of deposits a bank must keep at a central bank. If reserve requirements are increased, banks need to hold more at the central bank thus shrinking the credit extension of the bank to their clients
Open Market Operations
The process by which the Fed purchases securities in the open market from banks – most notably treasuries and MBS – which gives the banks more cash that they then lend out at lower rates (this is used to help stabilize the fed funds rate) What are some Fed facilities that exist?
Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF)
Term Auction Facility (TAF)
Term Auction Lending Facility (TALF)
Primary Dealer Credit Facility

What are two Fed reports that are useful to understand Fed policy and how the economy is doing? 

The Monetary Policy Report, which is used to brief Congressional members as to the state of the economy: https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/mpr_default.htm
The Beige Book is a collection of economic indicators and anecdotes collected by Federal Reserve governors across the country: https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/mpr_default.htm

What’s GDP and its components?

Gross domestic product measures the goods and services created within an economy during a given time. The equation – via the expenditure approach – is C + I + G + NX.
C = Consumer
Personal Consumption Expenditure
Durables
Non-Durables
Services
I = investment
Investment and change of inventories
G = Government
Federal spending
State and local spending
Net Exports
Net exports of both goods and services
The U.S. economy – like most major economies – is driven primarily (around 65-75%) by consumer spending, followed in roughly equal measure by investment and government depending on the year. Net exports can often be negative for developed economics.

What are the two primary measures of inflation?

CPI, which is the change in price (quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year) of a basket of goods and services that a “standard individual” would buy in a given year. Core CPI is this same basket, stripped of food and energy given the historical volatility of those.

What is a market measure of inflation commonly utilized?

The 5Y5Y swap rate, which is an actively traded swap of a five-year maturity that doesn’t begin until five years from now. This swap rate indicates what the market expects inflation to be over a five-year period beginning in five years. Usually it is around 2% given that 2% is the Fed target for inflation.

What are the two major US employment numbers that market participants will watch?

Initial jobless claims
Every Thursday at 8:30EST, which shows the number of people claiming unemployment over the previous week
Non-Farm Payrolls
First Friday of every month at 8:30EST, which shows the change month over-month of the number of people employed o This is an employment measure, while initial jobless claims is an unemployment measure

What is PMI?

PMI stands for the purchasing managers index and is conducted in a number of countries / regions monthly. It asks purchasing managers whether conditions (including output, forecasts, etc.) have improved or not. If 100% of respondents say improvements are being seen than the PMI would be 100. If 0% of respondents say there are improvements, the PMI would be 0. If only 50% of respondents say conditions are improving, the PMI would be 50. Generally, whenever PMI dips below 50 that raises alarm bells as it is indicating the majority of respondents are not seeing improving conditions relative to prior periods.
