Tell me about how you keep up to date with the markets?

I keep up with markets in a couple of ways. One of the main ways is through daily newsletters in my inbox - I’m subscribed to a number of them, but my favorites are definitely Markets Daily by Bloomberg, and the FT’s morning newsletter. Since I usually take the bus to school, I also try to listen to a markets-related podcast  - Daybreak by Bloomberg is usually my go-to. I also try to skim the front pages of various news sources whenever I can, for example the WSJ, FT, and The Economist. My school also has a number of Bloomberg Terminals, and if I have a lot of down time, I’ll try and skim the “React” or “Watch” reports within BECO and try and get a good sense from there.

Can you give me an example of some story you’ve read recently and why you found it interesting?

France, Vote of No Confidence in Emmanuel Macron’s PM Candidate: One headline that caught my attention in the financial markets was the recent political turmoil in France, which has pushed particularly French sovereign yields higher with effects on the euro as well. As a little background, France operates with both a president and prime minister, the latter of which is appointed by the president. Following the calling of snap elections earlier this year, where sitting President Macron’s left-wing alliance lost a number of seats to right-wing parties, Marie Le Pen and her National Rally party called for a motion of no confidence in the prime minister, which was successful. This had a noticeable impact on the OAT market as a budget has not been passed for 2025, which the prime minister would have to lead. As of today, 12/31, there still exists a large amount of uncertainty as to what that budget would look like, as the opposition is certain to demand concessions possibly in line with a more fiscally prudent government. While a new government has formed, there is a lot of doubt of whether this relatively fragile alliance will hold. I found it really interesting because it really continues a trend of right-wing conservatism that we’re seeing across the Western world, particularly in Germany and even the United States. I think that the populism we’ve seen that delivered Macron and Harris strong defeats has more room to run, and will certainly weigh not only on governmental actions but also have important impacts on the market. 

Describe what factors have influenced financial markets in recent months and how they might affect our clients.

Obviously there are a number of factors that have influenced financial markets in recent months, but a large influence, especially in macro markets, has been politics. First and foremost has been the U.S. Election, with the establishment of a Republican trifecta and the election of Donald Trump for a second term. On the hopes of stronger dealmaking through looser FTC regulation and potential corporate tax cuts, we’ve seen a strong rally in the U.S. equity market, as well as through some alternative assets such as bitcoin. However, political turmoil has extended far beyond the United States, such as in France, South Korea, Syria, as well as continuing conflict in the Middle East and in the Ukraine. These have moved equity markets globally as well as led to weakness in associated currencies and government bonds, such as the euro and the won. In a more global sense, I think this is helping to contribute to a global risk-off environment.
A second major factor has been central bank policy, in particular the actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve. We’ve seen strong movements in the equity market, albeit in the other direction, off of concerns that inflation is here to stay. With the most recent FOMC meeting, the Federal Reserve sees only 2 cuts in 2025, which has spooked the equity market. This has led to weakness in the fixed-income and credit markets that clients will certainly need to pay attention to.
One last major factor affecting financial markets has been the artificial intelligence story that has propelled the equity market throughout 2024 and looks poised to be a major theme into 2025, especially given the concentration of the equity market and the strong valuations that we are seeing, not only in artificial intelligence leaders but players all across the technology space. We’re also seeing massive trickledown into other industries, such as utilities, so clients will need to be especially wary of these pitfalls. Furthermore, this theme is driving global equity markets, such as Euronext with ASML and the Taiwan Stock Exchange with TSMC, and is a theme to potentially worry about into 2025. 

What is one major asset class you’re following closely?

I’m very interested in how rates have been moving recently, especially with the uncertainty surrounding Trump’s policies. We’ve somewhat recently seen the inversion of the yield curve, with long-term rates including the 10-year but also the 20 and 30-year barreling towards 5%. This has created a more traditional upward-sloping yield curve, with a really interesting caveat that the short-end is still really high in that 4-4.25% range. I think the economic data that comes in Q1 2025, especially inflation, is going to really play a huge role in the Federal Reserve’s cutting cycle, but right now the market’s a bit uncertain how many cuts - if really, any at all - are coming with this sticky inflation that we continue to see.

Are markets really that efficient?

I think that markets, generally, are pretty efficient. Obviously, there are going to be situations where as a result of a lack of liquidity due to accessibility, asymmetric information, or a sort of herd mentality, that markets are going to lose some efficiency, but I’d generally agree that the markets are reasonably efficient in the long-run.

What’s the mandate of the Federal Reserve? Are they living up to it?

The Federal Reserve has a dual mandate of achieving maximum employment while keeping prices stable, at least according to the letter of the law. This usually manifests in keeping inflation at around 2% YoY, and an unemployment rate of about 3-4%. I’d say that I think the Fed has been a bit too aggressive in recent rate cuts given the pace of inflation, and their current abrupt stop reflects that mistake; however, generally, they’ve been living up to that dual mandate and doing their best to navigate what remains a very confusing economy. 

What are some of the major central banks and who are their chairs / governors?

The Federal Reserve – Jerome Powell The European Central Bank – Christine Lagarde The Bank of England – Andrew Bailey The Bank of Japan – Kazuo Ueda The Bank of Canada – Tiff Macklem Swiss National Bank – Martin Schlegel Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) – Michele Bullock Reserve Bank of New Zealand – Adrian Orr

What routine news events have a large impact on rates?

Obviously a lot can move rates, but I’d say that FOMC and other monetary policy comittee meetings, speeches by members of said committees, and economic data like the CPI and NFP reports have the largest impact. 

What’s the Fed Funds rate right now? Do you think it’ll stay there for a long time? 

Currently, the Federal Funds target rate is between 4.25-4.50% as of the December 2024 meeting. In terms of where I see that rate moving, I’d generally agree with the market pricing of one rate cut by the end of 2025 to 4.00-4.25%. Inflation remains high whichever inflation measure is used, and the economy continues to look strong without signs of slowing, but it’s still worth realizing that 4% is still a highly restrictive rate and that a large part of inflation has been driven by volatile energy costs and supply chain shocks. Obviously, if policies like Trump’s tariff policies come to fruition, that may all go out the window, but I see 2 cuts in the next 6 meetings as very possible.

How does the monetary policy of the U.S. differ from other major economies right now? 

I think in terms of thematically, the Federal Reserve has really diverged from other central banks such as the ECB, Bank of Canada, and the PBOC, as well as many emerging market banks hoping to encourage growth domestically. While other central bank governors are continuing their cutting cycles as inflation more or less comes under control, the United States is blessed and cursed by a strong economy that continues to fuel inflation and has put brakes on potential future rate cuts. So as a result, we’re seeing a much stronger dollar than anticipated and a policy difference in interest-rate strategy.

How do you follow what rates are doing?

I generally follow how rates are doing through Bloomberg, as there’s not much coverage on the internet of how rates are moving (at least compared to equities). I think that the coverage by Bloomberg research economists is really strong, especially from a fundamental perspective; combined with WIRP/MIPR or TOP [Country], I feel like I’m able to get a relatively good sense of where rates are and where they might be heading.

When we talk about the stock market, what are we really referring to?

When people talk about the stock market, they’re generally talking about the various indexes that make up the U.S. equity market, such as the S&P 500, DJIA, Nasdaq, and Russell 2000. In a more broad sense, however, this would include other international exchanges such as the British FTSE, European Euro Stoxx, Japanese Nikkei, the Canadian Toronto Stock Exchange (TSE), French CAC, and others.

What do you think is driving the stock market right now?

I think that there have been two main drivers of the stock market recently; politics and rates. In terms of politics, there’s a lot of uncertainty about what a second Trump administration would look like for a corporate environment. On the one hand, the President has promised large corporate tax cuts, rollback of regulations, and a weaker FTC, which are all sure to play positively for equities. However, on the other hand, his tariff policies will certainly hurt international markets and also spark retaliatory tariffs and sticky inflation that puts a bunch of doubt on the U.S. economic environment. 
In terms of rates, we’ve also seen a lot of scrutiny put on the Federal Reserve rate-cutting cycle in terms of equities. The AI story remains king for large-caps, and the recent tapering of rate cuts has really erased much of that post-Trump enthusiasm. I think that equity investors are stuck between worrying about persistently high inflation which cuts into returns, while also still being fearful of a recession, which is why Fedspeak has really driven the markets in recent weeks.

Where is oil at right now? What’s driving it?

I know that the WTI spot is at about $72 and Brent is a bit higher at about $76 per barrel. I think that the main driver of oil recently has been the dual conflicts in the Middle East and the Ukraine - two critical oil-production or transport regions - and the potential scarcity that’s really been introduced here. We’re seeing a bit of softening as a lasting peace in the Middle East looks much more possible, and I think that any other improvement on that front will help to drive it lower. From a more fundamental level, we’re seeing oil producers, particularly the United States, continue to shatter production records, much faster than demand is projected to grow especially with the growth of renewables. As a result, that’s been driving it down but been a bit overshadowed by geopolitics in recent times. 

What’s the 10-year at and where do you think it will go?

The 10-year yield is currently at about 4.5%. Yields have been pretty steady since the new year but is up about 40 basis points since December 2024 for a number of reasons. From the rates side, Trump’s tariffs, combined with a strong economy and persistently high inflation have really put a brake on the Federal Reserve’s cutting cycle, and even put a potential hike on the table. The other half of the story is fiscal policy - there’s a lot of uncertainty from a budget standpoint as to where Trump will decide to spend, not to mention his plans to cut taxes across the board. I think that the rise in the yield is really just a reaction to the U.S.’s precarious debt situation and investor demands for greater yield in order to compensate. (https://home.treasury.gov/resource-center/data-chart-center/interest-rates/TextView?type=daily_treasury_yield_curve)

What’s the yield curve look like? Thoughts on it?

Recently the yield curve un-inverted and returned to its normal, upward-sloping pattern, with long-term yields soaring towards 5%. The curve isn’t super steep by historical standards - the 2y10y spread is still less than 1% - but I think it represents the re-establishment of the liqudiity premium and the relaxation of investor fears of an impending recession. I think there are two really interersting facts here - the first is that the short-end of rates is still very high, reflecting expectations of a pretty hawkish Fed in the coming months and potentially years. The other interesting idea at play is the soaring of U.S. yields, in part due to fiscal concerns, as well as potnetial long-term inflation risks. It honestly seems like we’re in for a really interesting cutting cycle after a very dovish beginning. 

What’s the reason why the Fed (or anyone else) cares about having 30-year Treasury bonds lower? 

From the government’s perspective, lower yields reduce its own cost of borrowing, which is certainly welcome. But from a more practical, monetary-policy perspective, it’s because yields across the curve - including the 30-year - serve as important benchmarks for the issuance of other non-governmental debt. Lowering yields would reduce the yield required on corporate bonds and lower mortgage rates, for example, all of which would encourage economic activity. 

What do you think about credit markets right now?

I’d say that the credit market is really being buoyed by high risk-free rates, which is helping to push investment grade bonds yields into the 5-6% range, with CCC high-yield bonds at about 11%. Comparing to the on-the-run 10-year U.S. treasury yield at just about 4.55%, we actually see that that the spreads are pretty tight historically; for AAA bonds, the spread is about 84 bps; BBB, about 106 bps, which are pretty close to 2-3 year lows and among the lower end in the 21st century. I think that the narrowing credit spreads are just a combination of strong macroeconomic fundamentals in the economy, strong demand for fixed-income due to high yield but limited supply as corporates hope for rate cuts to issue new debt. I think we’re going to continue to see these relatively tight spreads until we get meaningful rate cuts, or if the economic picture worsens (knock on wood). But regardless, I think the credit market remains a very attractive source of return especially given how expensive equities are and relatively weak performance on non-crypto alternatives.

What kind of credit products are out there? What one interests you most?

Credit’s a super diverse field - obviously, you have your standard government and corporate bonds and their variations - but it also includes highly distressed debt, mortgages/MBS, loans/CLOs, credit default swaps, municipal bonds, convertibles, and I’m sure even more that I’ve missed. They’re all super interesting to me, but I think that mortgages and the corresponding MBS/CMO market is probably what interests me most right now. I think that the negative convexity aspect, as well as the analysis of prepayment and default risk, is really fascinating, and there are a lot of untapped investment opportunities there especially with the uncertainty over rates. Obviously, that might change as I get more into the weeds, so I’d love to explore any credit if given the opportunity. 

How do you stay up to date on credit?

I find staying up to date with credit – like rates – to be a bit more difficult than equity. I suppose this is because your average person won’t be able to go buy credit default swaps or even distressed debt. I try to stay up to date by following investment grade and high yield indexes and seeing how they converge or diverge, reading WSJ and Bloomberg articles about credit when they pop up, and trying to think about how credit is moving given economic news that comes out. I don’t really follow any specific credit from any specific company, but just try to observe the market more broadly.

What are the major FX rates? Any major trends in FX?

The major FX rates are EUR/USD=1.036, GBP/USD=1.240, USD/JPY=155.19, CHF/USD=1.098, USD/CNH=7.32. A huge trend in the market overall has been the strength of the dollar recently off the back of inflationary concerns from Trump’s policy and a continually strong U.S. economy, which has weighed heavily on currencies and especially emerging market ones. This central bank divergence between the Federal Reserve and other central banks looking to stimulate economic growth in relatively anemic economies is pushing the dollar into a position of strength that reflects the view that the U.S. economy is likely to outperform the rest of the world in the short-term. Another trend is impact of political and fiscal instability on global currencies; in countries like Canada, France, and South Korea, we’ve really seen a lot of weakness come to the Canadian dollar, euro, and won that isn’t really being driven by fundamentals at all. 

Why do currencies fluctuate?

Currencies fluctuate as their relative strength against other currencies changes - i.e. gets “stronger” or “weaker”. The main driver is monetary policy, in particular interest rates; but other things that cause movement include economic indicators, fiscal policy, and general political stability. 

How do you stay up to date on FX?

I think it’s really hard to stay up-to-date on FX, because I think that undeerstanding the FX market is something that you’d really need to be on the desk to get a good grasp of rather than just look at articles and research reports.. I try and look through FX-related news stories like the WSJ and the FT, and monitor FX through the Bloomberg Terminal, but I can’t say that I’m very caught up on FX trends

What’s one overall trend in markets you’re following closely?

One overall trend in markets that I’ve been following is the positive optimism surrounding M&A activity following Trump’s election. Throughout the Biden administration, Lina Khan, Biden’s pick for the FTC, has prevented a number of deals from going through on antitrust litigation and generally depressed M&A optimism throughout the entire market. With Trump’s appointment and his generally pro-business stance, I think the market has really been preparing for a number of mergers to be announced as well as potentially close; some examples that come to mind include ConocoPhillips and Marathon, as well as Capital One and DFS. We’ve seen these shares appreciate markedly since the election of Trump; while they’ve shed some of that weight, they’re definitely riding some of that euphoria that I’m not confident is really justified. Either way, this is obviously having a huge impact on the companies themselves but also helping to support financials with strong M&A presence. 
Honestly, the best way to take advantage of this trend would be to be an M&A banker. In terms of being able to take advantage of this trend in the markets, I think that there is a bunch of statistical arbitrage ideas that can be performed. I’m not sure all the optimism is completely justified, especially considering the collapse of the Kroger and Albertson’s deal, and some of Lina Khan’s legacy may continue during a new administration. I think that investing in financials also makes sense, especially the more boutique investment banks as the rates path looks uncertain but M&A/advisory fees look promising. 

What are some important economic indicators to watch out for? 

I’d say that’s important to keep to track economic data, including GDP (real and nominal), inflation (CPI/PCE), employment numbers like NFPs and jobless claims, and leading indicators like PMIs. In terms of the market, I’d say important yields like the 2Y and 10Y, the VIX, US Dollar Index, SOFR, and the various stock indices like the S&P, Nasdaq, DJIA, and Russell 2000. Obviously, some of these would be more or less important depending on the desk, but they give a generally good picture of the market.

If you could only follow one economic indicator what would it be?

Obviously it would depend on product, but I think that inflation would be my choice. I’d say that because it play such a large role in every asset class, including rates of course, which has its own cascading effect; in addition, the viability of credit and fixed-income positions, as well as the general health of the equity market are affected heavily by inflation. I’d even go so far as to say that inflation plays a huge role in the commodities market - particularly with gold and oil - and so as a result, I don’t think there’s an economic indicator that can provide nearly so much information. 

How do you think about equity valuations right now?

In terms of equity valuations, I think I’d want to look at key valuation metrics for major stock indices as a whole, and compare that to the historical average. In particular, I think that the P/E ratio is really a great way to look at equity valuations, because it accounts for the price and current earnings in a simple formula that’s relatively easy to compare across companies. In terms of the S&P 500, the current P/E ratio is around 30, which is a standard deviation - i.e. in the top 15%ish of historical observations - above the historical average, which certainly gives credence to the idea that equity valuations are a bit stretched recently. Looking at future P/E ratios, or how the price compares to future earnings - we see a more normal value of about 24, which is only about half a standard deviation above the long-run average. So we’re seeing a bit of divergence between current and future ratios, and I think that can really be explained by the AI story, as well as some politics, that’s really been pushing current stock prices higher. So I think that yes, equity valuations are a bit stretched, but if companies can live up to high expectations of the Street, then their prices are justified. 

What’s generally the relationship between bonds and equities?

Historically, bonds had been negatively correlated with equities - in essence, if stocks went down, then bond prices would rally and vice versa. That’s why the 60/40 portfolio of stocks and bonds was touted as the ideal portfolio for capital preservation. However, recently we’ve seen that correlation return back to positive, with both assets moving in the same direction. As a result, it doesn’t seem like that investment advice is going to work for the short-term future - despite what my parents tell me!

What’s the relationship between bond prices and yield?

As bond prices decline, yields increase.

If we have a bond with a price of 90, 10% coupon, and it matures next year, then what is the yield to maturity (YTM)? What about if maturity is two years from now? What’s the current yield?

To get the YTM for a bond maturing in just one year, then you can use the formula: YTM = (coupons + (face value – current price)) / current price, which gives you: 20/90 or 22.22%.  For calculating maturities longer than one year, you need to use the estimated YTM formula (which doesn’t get you an exact number, but close to it).  The formula is YTM=C+(FV-PV)/n(FV+PV)/2, which using the numbers in this question, gets us 10+(100-90)/2(100+90)/215.8% (the real value is ~16.25%). The current yield is just 10 (the amount of coupon income you get per year) divided by 90 (the current price of the bond), which would be 10/90 or 11.11%.

How do I hedge my exposure in rates trading? Equities derivatives trading? 

Hedging exposure in rates trading would require you to zero out your interest rate risk, or duration. That could be done by buying or selling Treasury futures such that your dollar duration is 0. For equity derivatives trading, the main issue is a change in the price of the underlying. You can hedge that exposure by making your delta = 0, usually by shorting/buying the proper amount of market shares. 

What are various measures of return?

There’s a lot of ways people measure return, and each person is obviously going to swear by a different one (most likely the one the makes them look the best). However, some of the most common include the IRR (internal rate of return), return on invested capital (ROIC), and real return (i.e. adjusted for inflation). They may also be risk-adjusted, such as the Calmar ratio and Sharpe ratio, or time-adjusted such as the compound annual growth rate (CAGR). 

Where do you see gold going? Are there any more commodities that you follow closely? 

I think gold really has been one of the big stories of 2023 and 2024 due to its use as an inflation hedge. The high inflation coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic really caused a lot of investors to favor gold to protect their investments. Combined with the amount the U.S. government borrowed through the treasury market, I think many investors are rightfully worried about the U.S.’s fiscal deficit. While I don’t think we’ll see the same returns on gold, I think it has some more room to run to about the $3,000 level. This is because foreign central banks have been some of the largest buyers of gold worldwide; many of these banks had been holding Treasuries, but now are trying to protect against uncertainty in the United States by buying gold holdings. I think gold also tends to do better when rates are lower, since gold is essentially just a currency without any yield; as a result, holding gold becomes much more attractive when rates are very low, compared to if they are sky-high. I think lower rates are inevitable and central bank buying will continue, which should really support gold especially as investors call into question the U.S.’s credibility. 

What are some alternative asset classes? How are they doing right now?

Alternative asset classes is strictly defined as something that’s not a traditional asset class, like equities or fixed-income. These include things like hedge funds, private equity, real estate, commodities, and art. I’m not too familiar with alternative assets, but private equity is something that’s definitely been on the rise especially in the institution investor space. We’ve seen a huge explosion in private equity details, especially using the leveraged buyout model, but private credit is something that seems to be on the rise due to the additional flexibility clients can get compared to a more traditional bank. Real estate has also appreciated heavily but been hamstrung by high rates; that might pick up if rates come down in the near future. Hedge funds did really well in 2024 trading off the election and other large geopolitical events, and I see continuing as we’re still in a pretty uncertain world. I can’t say I know much about other alternatives, but certainly things like bitcoin have done absurdly well, whereas other alternatives might not.

If you had $1,000,000 personally how would you invest it?

Looking at U.S. equity valuations, I’d say they look a little bit stretched, and yields are historically high, so I’d try to really only about 60% stocks, 30% bonds, and maybe 10% of alternatives. Of the equities, I’d put maybe 30% into the S&P 500 and 30% into international stocks - while the U.S. is generally a more consistent investment and doesn’t have foreign exchange risks, I think that American equity valuations are a bit stretched and that there’s more upside there. Of the bonds, I think maybe 20% would go into high-grade investment bonds and 10% into Treasuries, really trying to take advantage of a strong, optimistic economy and high yields. I do think there’s some value to diversifying the portfolio into alternatives that aren’t strictly market-dependent, such as commodities, especially gold. 

If someone gave you $1,000,000 and wanted a constant stream of income every year for the foreseeable future, how would you invest it? What would be a reasonable amount per year for them to reliability get?

If they wanted a constant stream of income, they’d definitely want to look into the fixed-income side of the market. Since the client’s goal is consistent income, I’m also going to go out on a limb and say that they value capital preservation over potential volatility; you might see this perspective for retirees and insurance companies. I think that this kind of portfolio would definitely be underweight the traditional 60% of stocks - maybe 25% or so - with the remaining 75% or so within fixed-income. Specifically, I think municipal bonds are a really attractive option, especially through the tax benefits that come with it, and I think maybe 35% or so would be fair. I think that the remaining 40% could be split between high-grade corporates and treasuries to help diversify exposure but still get a relatively constant stream of income. Circling back on the stocks, we might choose a dividend-focused S&P 500 mutual fund rather than a general S&P index to fully focus on the constant stream of income. I’d say that you could reliably get 2-3% per year just off of coupons and dividends, and definitely some extra pickup through capital appreciation on the fixed-income and equities. 
