Philosophically, what really are MBS?

While there are many permutations, a MBS is a form of ownership of a wide swath of loans (mortgages) and the cashflows tied to them over time. The MBS owner is essentially the one being paid by the individual holding the mortgage (without the mortgage holder knowing it, of course). Every month the MBS holder will receive a monthly payment that consists of a combination of principal repayment along with interest on the mortgage pool that makes up the MBS.

What’s the most common form of MBS?

Passthroughs that are issued by government sponsored enterprises (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae. The issuer of a passthrough will take a Servicing Fee and an Agency Fee, which will be deducted from the payments that are passed through to investors (so investors don’t technically get all payments entirely passed through to them).

Beyond passthroughs, what other forms of MBS are there?

You can have private label (non GSE issued), commercial, and structured products. These had the largest declines in the great financial crisis and became less in vogue than passthroughs.

Can you put a little more meat on the bones?

If we have a pool or mortgages with a rate of 4.00% what will investors receive? 4.00%? Sure, let’s say we have a pool of $100m worth of mortgages. By this, we mean there is an outstanding balance of $100m on the mortgages. Let’s say the average coupon is 4.00%. A MBS will have a Servicing Fee (paid to issuer of the MBS as a form of administrative fee) of around 50bps (0.50%) and an Agency (guarantee) Fee of around 15bps (to absorb any losses by the Agency). Therefore, the MBS coupon would not be 4.00% (even though that was the average for all the mortgages), but rather 4.00-0.65 or 3.35%. 

How does a passthrough work?

The bank or mortgage-provider sells monthly principal and interest payments from a pool of mortgages to a GSE. These entities then “passthrough” these combined payments to the holder of the MBS and guarantee the principal and interest.

How large (roughly) is the MBS market?

$5-6 trillion as of 2020.

How do GSEs like Fannie and Freddie issue MBS?

They issue debt directly to the public – what is referred to as agency debt – and use funds to either purchase qualified mortgages or guarantee pools of mortgages from other financial institutions. They then securitize these loan pools and issue securities that represent a “share” or fractional ownership of a pool of mortgages.

How does the market generally view the credit quality of these MBS? How do we know?

We can always get an idea of the embedded credit risk of any security by looking at similar duration treasuries and comparing the increased yield obtained by buying said security. So, for example, MBS historically have a 50-200bp (0.5-2%) yield over that of a similar duration (similar tenure) treasury. So the market does assign risk to MBS over that of treasuries, but less than what you would expect most corporate bonds to have for example.

What’s the major difference between a MBS and a traditional bond?

With a traditional bond, there will be semi-annual coupon payments with the principal amount paid back in full at a defined time. With MBS you get a combined principal and interest payment monthly – as mortgages are paid monthly – and there can be prepayment of principal by mortgage owners (if they have more cash one month they may pay more down on their mortgage). This creates timing uncertainty for the cashflows coming in, which is distinct from a corporate bond where cashflow timing and amounts are certain (unless they default!). Further, mortgage holders, if rates have decreased, can completely refinance their mortgage, which takes one mortgage out of the pool that makes up the MBS. Or mortgage holders may sell their home to move to a new one, thus paying off their mortgage early. MBS holders must be willing to accept this cashflow timing uncertainty. Another way to say this, perhaps more simply, is that if rates decline all of a sudden you may have expected $X in cashflows, but you’ll get $X*1.2 or something because more people are paying off their mortgage earlier than anyone anticipated.

What are the two major risk categories for MBS?

Prepayment risk, which is when a homeowner pays off a larger than normal part of their mortgage, pays off their entire mortgage due to selling their home, or refinances their mortgage due to rates declining.
Extension risk, which is when rates rise and people are less apt to pay down extra on their mortgage (prepayments decline) or refinance their mortgage (because it would be at a higher rate).
Thus, the two major risks surround cashflow uncertainty; you may end up getting more cashflows being disbursed than you anticipated, or you may get less (since you always assume some level of prepayment in your models). This is probably the “hardest” question you’d ever get in an interview around MBS trading. As long as you show you have an intuitive understanding of the fundamental risks of the product, you will be highly impressive.

If a mortgage that the GSE has guaranteed defaults, what occurs?

The GSE will prepay the full mortgage (subject to some constraints). So, this operates as a prepayment as if the individual who defaulted had paid off their mortgage in full.

When rates rise, what does this (all things being equal) do to the prices of MBS?

Generally speaking, they will decline. This is because there will be less prepayment so the duration of the MBS increases. Remember that a higher yield results in a lower price and a longer duration – with a positive yield curve environment – meaning that yields will rise.

When we talk about MBS, do we talk about maturity? Or something else?

For MBS, we talk about weighted average life (WAL), which is another key difference between MBS and traditional corporate or government bonds. The WAL is an estimated amount of time until the principal of the mortgages are repaid in full. On average, due to prepayments, some mortgages will be repaid much sooner than others even if they all begin with the same 30-year duration. In other words, traditional bonds (whether treasuries or corporates) have a stated maturity (5 years, 10 years, etc.) whereas with mortgages it’s an estimate as even if the MBS is comprised of all 30-year fixed mortgages some will repay sooner in some manner.

What’s the average WAL of a 30-year mortgage pool?

It may surprise you to know it is normally around 4-6 years! 

How do we estimate the WAL?

If we think about what contributes to the weighted average life, it is obviously the speed at which mortgages are prepaid. The industry standard are Prepayment Standard Assumptions (PSAs). PSAs can be calibrated by quants, traders, and researchers due to market dynamics, but the usual assumption is that the rate of repayment increases at an annual rate of 0.2% monthly for the first 30 months and then an annual rate of 6% thereafter.

What kinds of mortgages would have a faster prepayment rates?

Those that are issued at significantly higher rates than those that prevail today. So, the WAL of a mortgage pool issued at 6%, if 30-year fixed mortgages now are 3%, would be well below the 4-6 year average (probably 2-3 years!). When rates are heavily cut after recessions, MBS duration frequently reaches 1-2 years.

So what happened to WAL during 2020?

Rates were cut lots; people saved lots due to not being able to spend money going on vacations, etc.; so the WAL decreased.

What do we mean by saying that MBS have negative convexity?

As the MBS duration increases (due to lower prepayments, due to rising rates) then so too does the yield on the MBS. Because the yield increases, the price of the MBS drops.

Who buys MBS?

Primarily fast money (hedge funds) who like the credit profile or funds who actively trade / hold MBSs. MBS trading is a bit more niche or specialized than say treasuries. While it’s a very large market there’s fewer participants than in other areas of rates trading.

How do MBS prices change as mortgage rates fluctuate?

MBS are normally issued at par (100) where the coupon rate will roughly match the prevailing yield on comparables. If mortgage rates – after the issuance of the MBS – rise then the price of the MBS would fall. If mortgage rates fall, the the price of the MBS would rise above par (100).

If treasury yields fell by 100bps (1%), what would this do to the PSA speed and WAL of a MBS?

Increase the PSA and lower the WAL. If treasury yields rise by 100bps (1%), what would this do to the PSA speed and WAL of a MBS? PSA would decrease and WAL would increase.

What factors should a model that tries to capture prepayments cover?

We can use the SMM (single monthly mortality): SMM = RI x MY x SM x BF
RI = Adjusts for refinancing incentive (where are rates and what incentive is there to refinance)
MY = Adjusts for seasonality (spring and fall see more prepayments as more people are moving then)
SM = Adjusts for seasoning (whereby new mortgages have low prepayments, picking up between years 2-5)
BF = Model needs to adjust for burnout whereby after a certain number of years those who will refinance likely already have, those who have not are just not interested

What are collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs)?

CMOs are bonds that are backed (collateralized) by either MBSs (passthroughs) or whole loans. CMOs – like CLOs – have tranches that are defined by their principle paydown priority. So if there are three tranches – A, B, and C – all the principal will go to paying off Class A (which could take, for example, three years), then all the principal would go to paying off Class B (which could take, for example, seven 6-7 years as it only begins after year three), etc. These classes will each have associated bonds with the higher classes (e.g. A) having a lower interest rate than the later tranches. This is obviously because they get the first allotment of principal repayments so are more assured of getting their money back.

Why would an investor buy a CMO as opposed to a MBS?

A CMO is a set of bonds with defined levels of priority – which allows for better risk measurement – and defined interest rates attached to them. 

Would longer-duration (e.g. Class B, C) CMO tranches be more or less exposed to pre payment risk?

Less exposed as pre-payment risk occurs more in the early years of a mortgage being held than in the later years (remember our discussion of “burnout” before). Those who are likely to refinance will do so at the first opportunity, not after a number of years.

What’s the most common CMO structure?

There are a number of different types of CMO structures including sequential, interest onlys, principal onlys, and PACs. Sequentials are the most common whereby principal repayments go to the first class until all principal is repaid. During the period at which all principal is being repaid to the first class, interest is being sent to the remaining classes (so they do get something during this period, it’s just only interest). Once the first class / tranche is paid off, then the next class will get all the principal repayments (with the lower classes just getting interest). Note: CMOs get quite complicated quite quickly. Don’t ever expect an interview question on them. 
