Philosophically, what are money market securities?

Money market securities are a broad set of securities that are usually traded by a singular desk (the money markets desk). These securities have one thing in common: duration. The duration (or maturities) of money market securities are less than a year. Money market securities can be secured or unsecured and can be government-backed – such as Treasury bills – or issued by corporations. 

Broadly speaking, what are the two kinds of categories of money market securities?

Those that have interest tied to them and those that don’t. For example, certificate of deposits, Fed Funds, and repos all are issued near or at par and have an interest payment tied to them like you are used to seeing with Treasury bonds or corporate bonds. However, because of the short duration of money market securities there are also discounted securities that have no interest payments associated with them. Instead, these securities are issued below par, but mature at par. So, your effective gain on the security is the difference between where it was issued (e.g. 99.75) and where it matured (100).

What are some examples of money market securities?

As mentioned, money market securities have different names than traditional financial securities. The main money market securities are: Repos, Fed Funds, Treasury Bills, Commercial Paper (CP), and Certificates of Deposit (CDs). 

What are repos?

Repos are one of the most fascinating areas of money markets; generally, there will be the most people on a money markets desk focused on repos than any other money markets type of security. Further, unlike the other money market securities that generally show very little volatility – except in extreme financial conditions like during 2007-09 – repos have significant flares of volatility that can lead to large loses.  https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-01-06/why-the-u-s-repo-market-blew- up-and-how-to-fix-it-quicktake    Repos operate under a simple concept: an individual who owns the security enters into a contract – a repo – whereby they sell the security and agree to buy it back at a specified later date at an agreed to price.