Pitch me a stock.

One company I’m bullish on is Bristow Group, ticker VTOL, a provider of off-shore rig transportation services. Its main revenue, alongside some governmental contracts for search-and-rescue efforts, comes from transporting people and supplies to offshore rigs in the Gulf of Mexico (aka Gulf of America) via helicopter. Since its emergence from a Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2019, the company is trading in the 10x P/E range and at just 5.5x EBITDA ($33 a share), which misunderstands the industry.
The main driver of Bristow in the next 1-2 years is going to be the renewal of existing contracts with offshore drilling suppliers. Following the pandemic, when drilling demand was low and the supply of helicopters was high, VTOL was forced to give up some profit to secure contracts; however, as these contracts expire, VTOL will have much stronger pricing power due to a shortage of helicopters and renewed demand, helping to grow its margins across the next 1-2 years. Additionally, its competitive advantage, namely its highly trained pilots, larger fleet, and direct connections with helicopter manufacturers, will help it to gain market share as its competitor struggle financially to purchase helicopters and develop flying talent, positioning itself to take advantage of an ongoing rebound in energy production. Alongside political tailwinds towards oil & gas production in the United States, Bristow looks beautifully positioned to take advantage. Furthermore, since producers usually operate offshore rigs regardless of market conditions, this allows Bristow to serve as a strong expression of oil & gas optimism while also providing a reasonable floor to downside. 
With the limited coverage of the company, the negative pessimism surrounding its restructuring, and perceived challenges to the industry, I think VTOL’s incredibly attractive both as a short-term and a value play. Through the next two years, I see revenue growth conservatively to around the $1.6-1.8 billion mark, or about 10% annualized, with substantial margin expansion. I’d set a target price of say $45 and a stop loss at about $25 a share, representing a gain of just under 30%. While I’m not as bullish as some other analysts on the Street - Jason Bandel at Evercore, for example, recently upgraded the price target to $47 in the NTM - I think that VTOL provides great value combined with a tangible catalyst.

Pitch me a short.

Cintas Corporation is a uniform and employee service supply company that has rallied almost 5x since the pandemic, trading just above $200 a share representing a market cap in the $80 billion ballpark. It’s a monster, financially, posting high single digit and low double digit revenue growth as well as expanding margins on all levels, resulting in EPS growth in the mid-teens. However, the future doesn’t look nearly as bright for a stock on a tear, and Wall Street is facing a cross roads over its jaw-dropping 48.8 P/E ratio, far ahead of peers Vestis and UniFirst at around 20x, respectively.
To be fair, Cintas has a strong competitive advantage through its operational efficiencies and size, which has allowed it to bid out contracts for uniform supply. However, there are major concerns looming on the horizon for the company. Structurally, the industry is no longer in a supply shortage, as it was coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic when Cintas signed many of its initial contracts. These contracts run from 3-5 years, meaning that many of them are up for renewal; the consolidated financial statements specifically point out a drop off starting in 2027 and 2028 where other players will hope to regain share. Furthermore, I’ve seen from Yelp and the BBB that Cintas actively prevent companies from cancelling these contracts, making it very unlikely that these companies will stay despite incumbency advantages. UNF and VSTS, among other players, will be sure to recover market share they lost during the pandemic to CTAS, either forcing lower rates or loss of business. On top of moderating labor force growth in the U.S., it is very unlikely that Cintas will continue such seismic growth. I see revenues returning to some $7-8 billion, about 10% higher than it was pre-pandemic but down about 20% from where it is currently. Alongside multiple compression, I see some 40-50% for the company over the next three years. With borrow costs only about 0.25% annualized, I see really great value in a short for Cintas.

Pitch me a global macro trade.

I’m in favor of a long position on the U.S. Dollar / Offshore Chinese Yuan pair for a number of reasons. To set a bit of background, recently the pair weakened past the 7.3 level, a key barrier only touched briefly in 2022 and 2023 and near an all-time low for the yuan off the back of Trump’s tariff policies, diverging interest rate paths, and Chinese economic weakness, to name a few. While the yuan has recovered back to 7.32, I think that a potential trade here has enormous potential.
Firstly, the Chinese and American economic paths continue to diverge, necessitating further interest-rate divergence. In China, weak PMIs and deflationary challenges have forced the PBOC to continue cutting rates to 3.1% and 3.6% for the 1-year and 5-year rate, which are possible to continue if the PBOC sees a continued lack of progress towards Chinese stimulus. In the United States, growth continues to be strong despite high rates, which look likely to continue as inflation proves hard to control. Aside from that, the macroeconomics creates a situation where, despite the PBOC’s reluctance for currency weakness, the PBOC may be forced to allow the pair to fall in order to soften the blow of tariffs on a Chinese population already losing confidence in the economy. This is supplanted by reports indicating that PBOC officials are willing to let the pair fall to the 7.5 level in order to soften the blow on the Chinese people.
On top of that, the historics seem to agree. At the start of Trump’s first term, the yuan weakened similarly on the back of tariff fears. Furthermore, China has shown a willingness to allow its currency to depreciate for the purposes of exporter competition throughout the 21st century, and given the circumstances, I do not see how this situation would be any different. Even without the tariff story, the fundamentals point towards a weaker yuan. Due to the interest rate differential, this trade would also earn excellent carry in the 1% neighborhood, meaning that we’d get some extra return simply for being in the position. As a result, I think that exiting at around 7.45, with a timeframe of around a year is an attractive position with strong upside potential of about 1.5% excluding carry. 