How does a bank balance sheet compare to that of a traditional company?

The primary difference is that the assets of a bank will be made up of the securities they hold; either primary issuance (loans) or bought on the secondary market (such as securities bought for trading purposes). On the liabilities side there will be a mix of equity, debt, and deposits. Deposits refer to retail deposits made by consumers (e.g. if I put $100,000 in my savings account, that is a liability on the banks’ balance sheet).

What does marked-to-market refer to?

Lots of regulations around banks surround marked-to-market accounting. Simply put, this is where every day certain securities held by the bank (assets) are valued at their fair market value (what they are trading at in the market). As you can imagine, during volatile periods this can create the appearance of stress. For example, if you have credit assets fall in value across the board by 5% - due to some large negative event that caused the market to crash broadly – all of a sudden your “assets” side of the balance sheet has shrunk quite a bit and the bank could appear stressed (because liabilities would stay roughly the same). This was a large issue in the financial crisis. Mortgage backed securities fell significantly in value – even though many viewed them as being much safer securities over the long run than the market was pricing – but nevertheless banks were forced to sell them off at cheap prices in order to stay “solvent”.

What is marked-to-model?

For securities that are more complex in nature and aren’t actively traded, sometimes priced will be determined by marked-to-model where an agreed upon model will be used to price the securities after purchase (regulators will closely scrutinize these models).

How do banks make money?

This is actually sometimes asked in interviews and is a good question. It shows that you understand (roughly!) how a bank works. For a retail bank – one that actively takes deposits and lends to consumers – with an investment banking side the following streams exist. This would include banks you’ll likely apply to like J.P. Morgan, BAML, and even now Goldman Sachs (since they are now taking retail deposits via Marcus).
Trading / Investing profits
Profits from issuance of securities and from the trading of securities in the secondary market
This can include proprietary investments (where possible) and investments in credit or PE funds started by the firm itself
Fees from Services
In investment banking (M&A, ECM, DCM) and asset management, banks earn a fee from doing an activity, rather than warehousing risk like in trading
For ECM and DCM there is some element of warehousing risk, however it is distinct from how risk is warehoused by traders
Net interest income
The difference between what you are paying depositors and what you are earning on money lent out
Inclusive of this are interest payments earned from securities held by traders
You should briefly take a spin through the 10-K or 10-Q documents of the bank you’re interviewing at to get an idea of the mix of income they have. Every bank will be different. For example, Goldman earns little net interest income and roughly equal amounts from trading and investment banking fees. JPM and BAML on the other hand are incredibly large banks – with lots of retail customers – who will earn lots of net interest income (in conjunction with trading profits and investment banking fees). This makes them more sensitive to lower rates as less net interest income is earned all things being equal.

What are the two major regulatory changes that have affected S&T over the last decade?

The two major regulatory changes are the full implementation of Basel 3 (2019) and Dodd-Frank (came into effect in 2015-2016). Note that both of these were long forecast by regulators and slowly introduced. While both regulations are very complex and lengthy, the best way to boil them down is that Basel 3 is focused in on capital controls (keeping banks sufficiently liquid, in their view) and Dodd-Frank is focused in on trading controls (keeping banks from doing risky things). Dodd-Frank is a U.S. based law with the most relevant portion – for S&T – being in the form of the Volcker rule, which lays out rules surrounding taking proprietary positions as a trader. These positions are defined as those that are not taken in order to facility client transactions, but rather purely to speculate. Here’s a good flow chart on Dodd-Frank: https://www.davispolk.com/files/DavisPolk_Final_Volcker_Rule_Flowcharts_Prop_Trading.pdf Basel 3 comes out of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and has had a number of iterations going back to the 1990s.

So, Basel 3 is about capital controls, what do we mean by that?

Basel 3 further solidifies the minimum levels of risk-weighted-assets and how much capital the bank must have set aside (in the event of market volatility that leads to losses). Banks now must keep a minimum of 8% capital to RWA. What this means practically is that more riskier assets require more balance sheet (capital) set aside for it. So, a bank needs to choose between holdings lots of liquid, relatively stable assets or a smaller amount of illiquid, volatile assets (like distressed debt). Capital must also be increased beyond the 8% for banks that are Global Systemically Important Financial Institutions (GSIFIs) by 2.5%. What Basel 3 does practically is reduce down the possible ROE (return on equity) of banks because the amount of equity a bank must hold is higher than it has been in the past and regulations skew toward incentivising banks to hold trading asset that allow for less returns as well (because less volatile assets obviously produce lesser potential returns). You can learn more about Basel 3 here, from the BIS: https://www.bis.org/bcbs/basel3.htm

What are the two major ratios introduced in this new round of regulation?

The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). Both of these are meant to test whether a bank can stay solvent during a downturn and are continually calculated. The LCR is roughly defined as the amount of high-quality liquid assets (that can be converted into cash in less than 30 days) divided by the net cash outflows that are likely to occur over a 30-day period (the ratio must exceed 1). High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) essentially refer to cash-like assets such as treasuries or AAA securities with a quasi-sovereign guarantee. The NSFR is a bit less straight forward. The purpose of the ratio is to illustrate how assets and liabilities are matched in duration; meaning that you aren’t funding the bank in the overnight market, while lending out money at 30-years, for example. If a bank were to do this – as some did to a certain degree during the great financial crisis – you would expose the bank to have funding / liquidity risk if the short-term funding market seized up due to not being able to liquidate your long dated maturities quickly. The NSFR is just: Stable Funding Available / Stable Funding Required, where the amount available and required is carefully calculated based off of the maturity profile of assets and liabilities of the bank and the ratio must be in excess of 1.

What is value-at-risk?

VaR is one of the ways in which risk is thought of on trading desks. VaR is an estimate of the maximum loss that can be had on any given day from holding a given set of products with a confidence interval of 95% or 99% usually. For example, assuming a normal distribution of returns on a set of products held, a 99% degree of confidence would mean a standard deviation of 2.32 (95% would be 1.645). If we had a 95% one-month VAR over a given month there is a 95% chance we’ll lose no more than, for example, $100,000 (but a 5% chance we’ll lose more than $100,000).
